x-pack/filebeat/module/cef/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: cef
:has-dashboards: false

== CEF module

This is a module for receiving Common Event Format (CEF) data over Syslog. When
messages are received over the syslog protocol the syslog input will parse the
header and set the timestamp value. Then the
<<processor-decode-cef, `decode_cef`>> processor is applied to parse the CEF
encoded data. The decoded data is written into a `cef` object field. Lastly any
Elastic Common Schema (ECS) fields that can be populated with the CEF data are
populated.

include::../include/running-modules.asciidoc[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

:fileset_ex: log

include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `log` fileset settings

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to `localhost`.
Set to `0.0.0.0` to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to `9003`

NOTE: Ports below 1024 require Filebeat to run as root.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

:modulename!:

Commit message:

Only attempt mapping if vendor is Forcepoint
- add docs on configuring SMC
- only attempt mappings if vendor is FORCEPOINT

x-pack/filebeat/module/cef/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: cef
:has-dashboards: false

== CEF module

This is a module for receiving Common Event Format (CEF) data over Syslog. When
messages are received over the syslog protocol the syslog input will parse the
header and set the timestamp value. Then the
<<processor-decode-cef, `decode_cef`>> processor is applied to parse the CEF
encoded data. The decoded data is written into a `cef` object field. Lastly any
Elastic Common Schema (ECS) fields that can be populated with the CEF data are
populated.

include::../include/running-modules.asciidoc[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

:fileset_ex: log

include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `log` fileset settings

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to `localhost`.
Set to `0.0.0.0` to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to `9003`

NOTE: Ports below 1024 require Filebeat to run as root.

[float]
==== Forcepoint NGFW Security Management Center

This module will process CEF data from Forcepoint NGFW Security
Management Center (SMC).  In the SMC configure the logs to be
forwarded to the address set in `var.syslog_host` in format CEF and
service UDP on `var.syslog_port`.  Instructions can be found in
https://support.forcepoint.com/KBArticle?id=000015002[KB 15002] for
configuring the SMC.  Testing was done with CEF logs from SMC version
6.6.1


:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

:modulename!:
