x-pack/libbeat/processors/add_cloudfoundry_metadata/docs/add_cloudfoundry_metadata.asciidoc, before:

[[add-cloudfoundry-metadata]]
[role="xpack"]
=== Add Cloud Foundry metadata

experimental[]

The `add_cloudfoundry_metadata` processor annotates each event with relevant metadata
from Cloud Foundry applications. The events are annotated with Cloud Foundry metadata,
only if the event contains a reference to a Cloud Foundry application and the configured
Cloud Foundry client is able to retrieve information for the application.

Each event is annotated with:

* Application Name
* Space ID
* Space Name
* Organization ID
* Organization Name


[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
- add_cloudfoundry_metadata:
    api_address: https://api.dev.cfdev.sh
    client_id: uaa-filebeat
    client_secret: verysecret
    ssl:
      verification_mode: none
    # To connect to Cloud Foundry over verified TLS you can specify a client and CA certificate.
    #ssl:
    #  certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/cf/ca.pem"]
    #  certificate:              "/etc/pki/cf/cert.pem"
    #  key:                      "/etc/pki/cf/cert.key"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It has the following settings:

`api_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry API. It uses `http://api.bosh-lite.com` by default.

`doppler_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry Doppler Websocket. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`uaa_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry UAA API. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`rlp_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry RLP Gateway. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`client_id`:: Client ID to authenticate with Cloud Foundry.

`client_secret`:: Client Secret to authenticate with Cloud Foundry.

`ssl`:: (Optional) SSL configuration to use when connecting to Cloud Foundry.

Commit message:

Switch from cf to cloudfoundry for event key. Improve some event fields. Fix changelog, and update asciidoc to reference the field that is read for application ID.

x-pack/libbeat/processors/add_cloudfoundry_metadata/docs/add_cloudfoundry_metadata.asciidoc, after:

[[add-cloudfoundry-metadata]]
[role="xpack"]
=== Add Cloud Foundry metadata

experimental[]

The `add_cloudfoundry_metadata` processor annotates each event with relevant metadata
from Cloud Foundry applications. The events are annotated with Cloud Foundry metadata,
only if the event contains a reference to a Cloud Foundry application (using field
`cloudfoundry.app.id`) and the configured Cloud Foundry client is able to retrieve
information for the application.

Each event is annotated with:

* Application Name
* Space ID
* Space Name
* Organization ID
* Organization Name


[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
- add_cloudfoundry_metadata:
    api_address: https://api.dev.cfdev.sh
    client_id: uaa-filebeat
    client_secret: verysecret
    ssl:
      verification_mode: none
    # To connect to Cloud Foundry over verified TLS you can specify a client and CA certificate.
    #ssl:
    #  certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/cf/ca.pem"]
    #  certificate:              "/etc/pki/cf/cert.pem"
    #  key:                      "/etc/pki/cf/cert.key"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It has the following settings:

`api_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry API. It uses `http://api.bosh-lite.com` by default.

`doppler_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry Doppler Websocket. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`uaa_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry UAA API. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`rlp_address`:: (Optional) The URL of the Cloud Foundry RLP Gateway. It uses value from ${api_address}/v2/info by default.

`client_id`:: Client ID to authenticate with Cloud Foundry.

`client_secret`:: Client Secret to authenticate with Cloud Foundry.

`ssl`:: (Optional) SSL configuration to use when connecting to Cloud Foundry.
