libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

ifdef::has_solutions[]
TIP: For deeper observability into your infrastructure, you can use the
Metrics app and the Logs app in {kib}.
For more details, see the {metrics-guide}[Metrics Monitoring Guide]
and the {logs-guide}[Logs Monitoring Guide].
endif::has_solutions[]

{beatname_uc} comes packaged with example Kibana dashboards, visualizations,
and searches for visualizing {beatname_uc} data in Kibana. Before you can use
the dashboards, you need to create the index pattern, +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+, and
load the dashboards into Kibana. To do this, you can either run the `setup`
command (as described here) or
<<configuration-dashboards,configure dashboard loading>> in the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file.

This requires a Kibana endpoint configuration. If you didn't already configure
a Kibana endpoint, see <<{beatname_lc}-configuration,configure {beatname_uc}>>.

Make sure Kibana is running before you perform this step. If you are accessing a
secured Kibana instance, make sure you've configured credentials as described in
<<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

To set up the Kibana dashboards for {beatname_uc}, use the appropriate command
for your system. The command shown here loads the dashboards from the {beatname_uc}
package. For more options, such as loading customized dashboards, see
{beatsdevguide}/import-dashboards.html[Importing Existing Beat Dashboards] in
the _Beats Developer Guide_.
ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
If you've configured the Logstash output, see
<<load-dashboards-logstash>>.
endif::[]

ifdef::requires-sudo[]
include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-note-sudo.asciidoc[]
endif::requires-sudo[]

ifdef::deb_os,rpm_os[]
*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::deb_os,rpm_os[]

ifdef::mac_os[]
*mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*brew:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::mac_os[]

ifdef::linux_os[]
*linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::linux_os[]

ifdef::docker_platform[]
*docker:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
docker run --net="host" {dockerimage} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::docker_platform[]

ifdef::win_os[]
ifndef::win_only[]
*win:*
endif::win_only[]

Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

From the PowerShell prompt, change to the directory where you installed {beatname_uc},
and run:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::win_os[]

ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
[[load-dashboards-logstash]]
==== Set up dashboards for Logstash output

During dashboard loading, {beatname_uc} connects to Elasticsearch to check
version information. To load dashboards when the Logstash output is enabled, you
need to temporarily disable the Logstash output and enable Elasticsearch. To
connect to a secured Elasticsearch cluster, you also need to pass Elasticsearch
credentials.

TIP: The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.

ifdef::deb_os,rpm_os[]
*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::deb_os,rpm_os[]

ifdef::mac_os[]
*mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----

*brew:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::mac_os[]

ifdef::linux_os[]
*linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::linux_os[]

ifdef::docker_platform[]
*docker:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
docker run --net="host" {dockerimage} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::docker_platform[]

ifdef::win_os[]
ifndef::win_only[]
*win:*
endif::win_only[]

Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

From the PowerShell prompt, change to the directory where you installed {beatname_uc},
and run:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe setup -e `
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false `
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] `
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal `
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} `
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::win_os[]

endif::no-output-logstash[]

Commit message:

[docs] Recommend env variables rather than keystore for functionbeat (#16010) (#16080)

libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

ifdef::has_solutions[]
TIP: For deeper observability into your infrastructure, you can use the
Metrics app and the Logs app in {kib}.
For more details, see the {metrics-guide}[Metrics Monitoring Guide]
and the {logs-guide}[Logs Monitoring Guide].
endif::has_solutions[]

{beatname_uc} comes packaged with example Kibana dashboards, visualizations,
and searches for visualizing {beatname_uc} data in Kibana. Before you can use
the dashboards, you need to create the index pattern, +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+, and
load the dashboards into Kibana. To do this, you can either run the `setup`
command (as described here) or
<<configuration-dashboards,configure dashboard loading>> in the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file.

This requires a Kibana endpoint configuration. If you didn't already configure
a Kibana endpoint, see <<{beatname_lc}-configuration,configure {beatname_uc}>>.

Make sure Kibana is running before you perform this step. If you are accessing a
secured Kibana instance, make sure you've configured credentials as described in
<<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

To set up the Kibana dashboards for {beatname_uc}, use the appropriate command
for your system. The command shown here loads the dashboards from the {beatname_uc}
package. For more options, such as loading customized dashboards, see
{beatsdevguide}/import-dashboards.html[Importing Existing Beat Dashboards] in
the _Beats Developer Guide_.
ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
If you've configured the Logstash output, see
<<load-dashboards-logstash>>.
endif::[]

ifdef::requires-sudo[]
include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-note-sudo.asciidoc[]
endif::requires-sudo[]

ifdef::deb_os,rpm_os[]
*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::deb_os,rpm_os[]

ifdef::mac_os[]
*mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*brew:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::mac_os[]

ifdef::linux_os[]
*linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::linux_os[]

ifdef::docker_platform[]
*docker:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
docker run --net="host" {dockerimage} setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::docker_platform[]

ifdef::win_os[]
ifndef::win_only[]
*win:*
endif::win_only[]

Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

From the PowerShell prompt, change to the directory where you installed {beatname_uc},
and run:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe setup --dashboards
----------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::win_os[]

ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
[[load-dashboards-logstash]]
==== Set up dashboards for Logstash output

During dashboard loading, {beatname_uc} connects to Elasticsearch to check
version information. To load dashboards when the Logstash output is enabled, you
need to temporarily disable the Logstash output and enable Elasticsearch. To
connect to a secured Elasticsearch cluster, you also need to pass Elasticsearch
credentials.

TIP: The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values
ifndef::serverless[]
in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
endif::[]
ifdef::serverless[]
in environment variables.
endif::[]

ifdef::deb_os,rpm_os[]
*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::deb_os,rpm_os[]

ifdef::mac_os[]
*mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----

*brew:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::mac_os[]

ifdef::linux_os[]
*linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::linux_os[]

ifdef::docker_platform[]
*docker:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
docker run --net="host" {dockerimage} setup -e \
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} \
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::docker_platform[]

ifdef::win_os[]
ifndef::win_only[]
*win:*
endif::win_only[]

Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

From the PowerShell prompt, change to the directory where you installed {beatname_uc},
and run:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe setup -e `
  -E output.logstash.enabled=false `
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=['localhost:9200'] `
  -E output.elasticsearch.username={beat_default_index_prefix}_internal `
  -E output.elasticsearch.password={pwd} `
  -E setup.kibana.host=localhost:5601
----
endif::win_os[]

endif::no-output-logstash[]
