libbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, before:

[[getting-started]]
== Getting started with {beats}

Each Beat is a separately installable product. Before installing Beats, you need
to install and configure the {stack}. To learn how to get up and running
quickly, see {stack-gs}/get-started-elastic-stack.html[Getting started with the
{stack}].

[TIP]
==============
You can skip having to install {es} and {kib} by using our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {es} Service] on
Elastic Cloud. The {es} Service is available on both AWS and GCP.
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup[Try out the {es}
Service for free].
==============

After installing the {stack}, see the {beats} getting started guides: 

* {auditbeat-ref}/auditbeat-getting-started.html[Auditbeat]
* {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-getting-started.html[Filebeat]
* {functionbeat-ref}/functionbeat-getting-started.html[Functionbeat]
* {heartbeat-ref}/heartbeat-getting-started.html[Heartbeat]
* {journalbeat-ref}/journalbeat-getting-started.html[Journalbeat]
* {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-getting-started.html[Metricbeat]
* {packetbeat-ref}/packetbeat-getting-started.html[Packetbeat]
* {winlogbeat-ref}/winlogbeat-getting-started.html[Winlogbeat]

If you're planning to use the
{infra-guide}/infrastructure-ui-overview.html[Infrastructure] and
{infra-guide}/logs-ui-overview.html[Logs] UIs in {kib}, also see the
{infra-guide}/index.html[Infrastructure Monitoring Guide].

Commit message:

Switch to standard ESS trial link (#16504) (#16649)
Co-authored-by: Nik Richers <nrichers@elastic.co>

libbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, after:

[[getting-started]]
== Getting started with {beats}

Each Beat is a separately installable product. Before installing Beats, you need
to install and configure the {stack}. To learn how to get up and running
quickly, see {stack-gs}/get-started-elastic-stack.html[Getting started with the
{stack}].

[TIP]
==============
You can skip having to install {es} and {kib} by using our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {ess}] on
{ecloud}. The {ess} is available on AWS, GCP, and Azure.
{ess-trial}[Try out the {ess}
for free].
==============

After installing the {stack}, see the {beats} getting started guides: 

* {auditbeat-ref}/auditbeat-getting-started.html[Auditbeat]
* {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-getting-started.html[Filebeat]
* {functionbeat-ref}/functionbeat-getting-started.html[Functionbeat]
* {heartbeat-ref}/heartbeat-getting-started.html[Heartbeat]
* {journalbeat-ref}/journalbeat-getting-started.html[Journalbeat]
* {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-getting-started.html[Metricbeat]
* {packetbeat-ref}/packetbeat-getting-started.html[Packetbeat]
* {winlogbeat-ref}/winlogbeat-getting-started.html[Winlogbeat]

If you're planning to use the
{infra-guide}/infrastructure-ui-overview.html[Infrastructure] and
{infra-guide}/logs-ui-overview.html[Logs] UIs in {kib}, also see the
{infra-guide}/index.html[Infrastructure Monitoring Guide].
