libbeat/docs/http-endpoint.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/http-endpoint.asciidoc[]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[http-endpoint]]
== HTTP Endpoint

experimental[]

{beatname_uc} can expose internal metrics through an HTTP endpoint. These are useful to
monitor the internal state of the Beat. For security reasons the endpoint is disabled
by default, as you may want to avoid exposing this info.

The HTTP endpoint has the following configuration settings:

`http.enabled`:: (Optional) Enable the HTTP endpoint. Default is `false`.
`http.host`:: (Optional) Bind to this hostname or IP address.
It is recommended to use only localhost. Default is `localhost`
`http.port`:: (Optional) Port on which the HTTP endpoint will bind. Default is `5066`.

This is the list of paths you can access. For pretty JSON output append ?pretty to the URL.


[float]
=== Info

`/` provides basic info from the {beatname_uc}. Example:

[source,js]
----
curl -XGET 'localhost:5066/?pretty'
----

["source","js",subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "beat": "metricbeat",
  "hostname": "example.lan",
  "name": "example.lan",
  "uuid": "34f6c6e1-45a8-4b12-9125-11b3e6e89866",
  "version": "{version}"
}
----

[float]
=== Stats

`/stats` reports internal metrics. Example:

[source,js]
----
curl -XGET 'localhost:5066/stats?pretty'
----

["source","js",subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "beat": {
    "cpu": {
      "system": {
        "ticks": 1710,
        "time": {
          "ms": 1712
        }
      },
      "total": {
        "ticks": 3420,
        "time": {
          "ms": 3424
        },
        "value": 3420
      },
      "user": {
        "ticks": 1710,
        "time": {
          "ms": 1712
        }
      }
    },
    "info": {
      "ephemeral_id": "ab4287c4-d907-4d9d-b074-d8c3cec4a577",
      "uptime": {
        "ms": 195547
      }
    },
    "memstats": {
      "gc_next": 17855152,
      "memory_alloc": 9433384,
      "memory_total": 492478864,
      "rss": 50405376
    },
    "runtime": {
      "goroutines": 22
    }
  },
  "libbeat": {
    "config": {
      "module": {
        "running": 0,
        "starts": 0,
        "stops": 0
      },
      "reloads": 1
    },
    "output": {
      "events": {
        "acked": 0,
        "active": 0,
        "batches": 0,
        "dropped": 0,
        "duplicates": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "total": 0
      },
      "read": {
        "bytes": 0,
        "errors": 0
      },
      "type": "elasticsearch",
      "write": {
        "bytes": 0,
        "errors": 0
      }
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "clients": 6,
      "events": {
        "active": 716,
        "dropped": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "filtered": 0,
        "published": 716,
        "retry": 278,
        "total": 716
      },
      "queue": {
        "acked": 0
      }
    }
  },
  "system": {
    "cpu": {
      "cores": 4
    },
    "load": {
      "1": 2.22,
      "15": 1.8,
      "5": 1.74,
      "norm": {
        "1": 0.555,
        "15": 0.45,
        "5": 0.435
      }
    }
  }
}
----

The actual output may contain more metrics specific to {beatname_uc}

Commit message:

Libbeat's HTTP Server can now listen to unix socket.
Allow to use a socket file using the `unix:///tmp/hello.sock` syntax
to define an HTTP server that will listen HTTP request.

Tasks:

- Implements the host parsing.
- Refactor the API handler to be reusable and testable.
- Refactor the API Code so we can start and stop a server gracefully,
  this is require to clean up the socket after usage.

libbeat/docs/http-endpoint.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/http-endpoint.asciidoc[]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[http-endpoint]]
== HTTP Endpoint

experimental[]

{beatname_uc} can expose internal metrics through an HTTP endpoint. These are useful to
monitor the internal state of the Beat. For security reasons the endpoint is disabled
by default, as you may want to avoid exposing this info.

The HTTP endpoint has the following configuration settings:

`http.enabled`:: (Optional) Enable the HTTP endpoint. Default is `false`.
`http.host`:: (Optional) Bind to this hostname, IP address, unix socket (unix:///var/run/{beatname_lc}.sock) or Windows named pipe (npipe:///{beatname_lc}).
It is recommended to use only localhost. Default is `localhost`
`http.port`:: (Optional) Port on which the HTTP endpoint will bind. Default is `5066`.
`http.user`:: (Optional) User to use to create the named pipe, only work on Windows, Default to the
current user.
`http.security_descriptor`:: (Optional) Windows Security descriptor string defined in the SDDL format. Default to
read and write permission for the current user.

This is the list of paths you can access. For pretty JSON output append ?pretty to the URL.

You can query a unix socket using the `CURL` command and the `--unix-socket` flag.

[source,js]
----
curl -XGET --unix-socket '/var/run/{beatname_lc}.sock' 'http://unix/stats/?pretty'
----


[float]
=== Info

`/` provides basic info from the {beatname_uc}. Example:

[source,js]
----
curl -XGET 'localhost:5066/?pretty'
----

["source","js",subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "beat": "metricbeat",
  "hostname": "example.lan",
  "name": "example.lan",
  "uuid": "34f6c6e1-45a8-4b12-9125-11b3e6e89866",
  "version": "{version}"
}
----

[float]
=== Stats

`/stats` reports internal metrics. Example:

[source,js]
----
curl -XGET 'localhost:5066/stats?pretty'
----

["source","js",subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "beat": {
    "cpu": {
      "system": {
        "ticks": 1710,
        "time": {
          "ms": 1712
        }
      },
      "total": {
        "ticks": 3420,
        "time": {
          "ms": 3424
        },
        "value": 3420
      },
      "user": {
        "ticks": 1710,
        "time": {
          "ms": 1712
        }
      }
    },
    "info": {
      "ephemeral_id": "ab4287c4-d907-4d9d-b074-d8c3cec4a577",
      "uptime": {
        "ms": 195547
      }
    },
    "memstats": {
      "gc_next": 17855152,
      "memory_alloc": 9433384,
      "memory_total": 492478864,
      "rss": 50405376
    },
    "runtime": {
      "goroutines": 22
    }
  },
  "libbeat": {
    "config": {
      "module": {
        "running": 0,
        "starts": 0,
        "stops": 0
      },
      "reloads": 1
    },
    "output": {
      "events": {
        "acked": 0,
        "active": 0,
        "batches": 0,
        "dropped": 0,
        "duplicates": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "total": 0
      },
      "read": {
        "bytes": 0,
        "errors": 0
      },
      "type": "elasticsearch",
      "write": {
        "bytes": 0,
        "errors": 0
      }
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "clients": 6,
      "events": {
        "active": 716,
        "dropped": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "filtered": 0,
        "published": 716,
        "retry": 278,
        "total": 716
      },
      "queue": {
        "acked": 0
      }
    }
  },
  "system": {
    "cpu": {
      "cores": 4
    },
    "load": {
      "1": 2.22,
      "15": 1.8,
      "5": 1.74,
      "norm": {
        "1": 0.555,
        "15": 0.45,
        "5": 0.435
      }
    }
  }
}
----

The actual output may contain more metrics specific to {beatname_uc}
