libbeat/docs/https.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/https.asciidoc[]
//// This content is structured to be included as a whole file.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

To secure the communication between {beatname_uc} and Elasticsearch, you can use
HTTPS and basic authentication. Basic authentication for Elasticsearch is
available when you enable {security} (see
{ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster] and <<securing-beats>>).
If you aren't using {security}, you can use a web proxy instead.

Here is a sample configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  username: {beatname_lc} <1>
  password: verysecret <2>
  protocol: https <3>
  hosts: ["elasticsearch.example.com:9200"] <4>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The username to use for authenticating to Elasticsearch.
<2> The password to use for authenticating to Elasticsearch.
<3> This setting enables the HTTPS protocol.
<4> The IP and port of the Elasticsearch nodes.

TIP: To obfuscate passwords and other sensitive settings, use the
<<keystore,secrets keystore>>.

{beatname_uc} verifies the validity of the server certificates and only accepts trusted
certificates. Creating a correct SSL/TLS infrastructure is outside the scope of
this document.

By default {beatname_uc} uses the list of trusted certificate authorities from the
operating system where {beatname_uc} is running. You can configure {beatname_uc} to use a specific list of
CA certificates instead of the list from the OS. You can also configure it to use client authentication
by specifying the certificate and key to use when the server requires the {beatname_uc} to authenticate. Here is an example
configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  username: {beatname_lc}
  password: verysecret
  protocol: https
  hosts: ["elasticsearch.example.com:9200"]
  ssl.certificate_authorities: <1>
    - /etc/pki/my_root_ca.pem
    - /etc/pki/my_other_ca.pem
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client.pem" <2>
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/key.pem" <3>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The list of CA certificates to trust
<2> The path to the certificate for SSL client authentication
<3> The client certificate key

NOTE: For any given connection, the SSL/TLS certificates must have a subject
that matches the value specified for `hosts`, or the SSL handshake fails.
For example, if you specify `hosts: ["foobar:9200"]`, the certificate MUST
include `foobar` in the subject (`CN=foobar`) or as a subject alternative name
(SAN). Make sure the hostname resolves to the correct IP address. If no DNS is available, then
you can associate the IP address with your hostname in `/etc/hosts`
(on Unix) or `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` (on Windows).

Commit message:

[docs] Recommend env variables rather than keystore for functionbeat (#16010) (#16082)

libbeat/docs/https.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/https.asciidoc[]
//// This content is structured to be included as a whole file.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

To secure the communication between {beatname_uc} and Elasticsearch, you can use
HTTPS and basic authentication. Basic authentication for Elasticsearch is
available when you enable {security} (see
{ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster] and <<securing-beats>>).
If you aren't using {security}, you can use a web proxy instead.

Here is a sample configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  username: {beatname_lc} <1>
  password: verysecret <2>
  protocol: https <3>
  hosts: ["elasticsearch.example.com:9200"] <4>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The username to use for authenticating to Elasticsearch.
<2> The password to use for authenticating to Elasticsearch.
<3> This setting enables the HTTPS protocol.
<4> The IP and port of the Elasticsearch nodes.

TIP: To obfuscate passwords and other sensitive settings,
ifndef::serverless[]
use the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
endif::[]
ifdef::serverless[]
use environment variables.
endif::[]

{beatname_uc} verifies the validity of the server certificates and only accepts trusted
certificates. Creating a correct SSL/TLS infrastructure is outside the scope of
this document.

By default {beatname_uc} uses the list of trusted certificate authorities from the
operating system where {beatname_uc} is running. You can configure {beatname_uc} to use a specific list of
CA certificates instead of the list from the OS. You can also configure it to use client authentication
by specifying the certificate and key to use when the server requires the {beatname_uc} to authenticate. Here is an example
configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  username: {beatname_lc}
  password: verysecret
  protocol: https
  hosts: ["elasticsearch.example.com:9200"]
  ssl.certificate_authorities: <1>
    - /etc/pki/my_root_ca.pem
    - /etc/pki/my_other_ca.pem
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client.pem" <2>
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/key.pem" <3>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The list of CA certificates to trust
<2> The path to the certificate for SSL client authentication
<3> The client certificate key

NOTE: For any given connection, the SSL/TLS certificates must have a subject
that matches the value specified for `hosts`, or the SSL handshake fails.
For example, if you specify `hosts: ["foobar:9200"]`, the certificate MUST
include `foobar` in the subject (`CN=foobar`) or as a subject alternative name
(SAN). Make sure the hostname resolves to the correct IP address. If no DNS is available, then
you can associate the IP address with your hostname in `/etc/hosts`
(on Unix) or `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` (on Windows).
