libbeat/docs/output-cloud.asciidoc, before:

[[configure-cloud-id]]
=== Configure the output for the {ecloud}

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{ecloud}</titleabbrev>
++++

ifdef::apm-server[]
NOTE: This page refers to using a separate instance of APM Server with an existing
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[{ess} deployment].
If you want to use APM on {ecloud}, see the cloud docs:
{cloud}/ec-create-deployment.html[Create your deployment] or
{cloud}/ec-manage-apm-settings.html[Add APM user settings].
endif::apm-server[]

{beatname_uc} comes with two settings that simplify the output configuration
when used together with https://cloud.elastic.co/[{ecloud}]. When defined,
these setting overwrite settings from other parts in the configuration.

Example:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.id: "staging:dXMtZWFzdC0xLmF3cy5mb3VuZC5pbyRjZWM2ZjI2MWE3NGJmMjRjZTMzYmI4ODExYjg0Mjk0ZiRjNmMyY2E2ZDA0MjI0OWFmMGNjN2Q3YTllOTYyNTc0Mw=="
cloud.auth: "elastic:{pwd}"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These settings can be also specified at the command line, like this:


["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} -e -E cloud.id="<cloud-id>" -E cloud.auth="<cloud.auth>"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


==== `cloud.id`

The Cloud ID, which can be found in the {ecloud} web console, is used by
{beatname_uc} to resolve the {es} and {kib} URLs. This setting
overwrites the `output.elasticsearch.hosts` and `setup.kibana.host` settings.

==== `cloud.auth`

When specified, the `cloud.auth` overwrites the `output.elasticsearch.username` and
`output.elasticsearch.password` settings. Because the Kibana settings inherit
the username and password from the {es} output, this can also be used
to set the `setup.kibana.username` and `setup.kibana.password` options.

Commit message:

Update output cloud with default port usage
The base64 encoded `cloud.id` found in the ESS web console does not explicitly specify a port. 

This means that Beats will default back to using port 443, not the commonly configured and advertised cloud endpoint port 9243. This can be confusing for users that setup firewall and proxy rules expecting Beats to use port 9243.

libbeat/docs/output-cloud.asciidoc, after:

[[configure-cloud-id]]
=== Configure the output for the {ecloud}

[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{ecloud}</titleabbrev>
++++

ifdef::apm-server[]
NOTE: This page refers to using a separate instance of APM Server with an existing
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[{ess} deployment].
If you want to use APM on {ecloud}, see the cloud docs:
{cloud}/ec-create-deployment.html[Create your deployment] or
{cloud}/ec-manage-apm-settings.html[Add APM user settings].
endif::apm-server[]

{beatname_uc} comes with two settings that simplify the output configuration
when used together with https://cloud.elastic.co/[{ecloud}]. When defined,
these setting overwrite settings from other parts in the configuration.

Example:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.id: "staging:dXMtZWFzdC0xLmF3cy5mb3VuZC5pbyRjZWM2ZjI2MWE3NGJmMjRjZTMzYmI4ODExYjg0Mjk0ZiRjNmMyY2E2ZDA0MjI0OWFmMGNjN2Q3YTllOTYyNTc0Mw=="
cloud.auth: "elastic:{pwd}"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These settings can be also specified at the command line, like this:


["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc} -e -E cloud.id="<cloud-id>" -E cloud.auth="<cloud.auth>"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


==== `cloud.id`

The Cloud ID, which can be found in the {ecloud} web console, is used by
{beatname_uc} to resolve the {es} and {kib} URLs. This setting
overwrites the `output.elasticsearch.hosts` and `setup.kibana.host` settings.

NOTE: The base64 encoded `cloud.id` found in the {ecloud} web console does not explicitly specify a port. This means that {beatname_uc} will default to using port 443 when using `cloud.id`, not the commonly configured cloud endpoint port 9243.

==== `cloud.auth`

When specified, the `cloud.auth` overwrites the `output.elasticsearch.username` and
`output.elasticsearch.password` settings. Because the Kibana settings inherit
the username and password from the {es} output, this can also be used
to set the `setup.kibana.username` and `setup.kibana.password` options.
