libbeat/docs/processors-using.asciidoc, before:

[[defining-processors]]
=== Define processors

You can use processors to filter and enhance data before sending it to the
configured output. To define a processor, you specify the processor name, an
optional condition, and a set of parameters:

[source,yaml]
------
processors:
  - <processor_name>:
      when:
        <condition>
      <parameters>

  - <processor_name>:
      when:
        <condition>
      <parameters>

...
------

Where:

* `<processor_name>` specifies a <<processors,processor>> that performs some kind
of action, such as selecting the fields that are exported or adding metadata to
the event.
* `<condition>` specifies an optional <<conditions,condition>>. If the
condition is present, then the action is executed only if the condition is
fulfilled. If no condition is set, then the action is always executed.
* `<parameters>` is the list of parameters to pass to the processor.

More complex conditional processing can be accomplished by using the
if-then-else processor configuration. This allows multiple processors to be
executed based on a single condition.

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - if:
      <condition>
    then: <1>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      ...
    else: <2>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      ...
----
<1> `then` must contain a single processor or a list of one or more processors
to execute when the condition evaluates to true.
<2> `else` is optional. It can contain a single processor or a list of
processors to execute when the conditional evaluate to false.

[[where-valid]]
==== Where are processors valid?

// TODO: ANY NEW BEATS THAT RE-USE THIS TOPIC NEED TO DEFINE processor-scope.

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
:processor-scope: input
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]
:processor-scope: module
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
:processor-scope: module
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="packetbeat"]
:processor-scope: protocol
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
:processor-scope: monitor
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
:processor-scope: event log shipper
endif::[]

Processors are valid:

* At the top-level in the configuration. The processor is applied to all data
collected by {beatname_uc}.
* Under a specific {processor-scope}. The processor is applied to the data
collected for that {processor-scope}.
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
------
- type: <input_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
...
------
+
Similarly, for {beatname_uc} modules, you can define processors under the
`input` section of the module definition.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
- module: <module_name>
  metricsets: ["<metricset_name>"]
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
auditbeat.modules:
- module: <module_name>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="packetbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
packetbeat.protocols:
- type: <protocol_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----

* Under `packetbeat.flows`. The processor is applied to the data in
<<configuration-flows,network flows>>:
+
[source,yaml]
----
packetbeat.flows:
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: <monitor_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
winlogbeat.event_logs:
- name: <network_shipper_name>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]


[[processors]]
==== Processors

The supported processors are:

include::processors-list.asciidoc[tag=processors-list]

[[conditions]]
==== Conditions

Each condition receives a field to compare. You can specify multiple fields
under the same condition by using `AND` between the fields (for example,
`field1 AND field2`).

For each field, you can specify a simple field name or a nested map, for example
`dns.question.name`.

See <<exported-fields>> for a list of all the fields that are exported by
{beatname_uc}.

The supported conditions are:

* <<condition-equals,`equals`>>
* <<condition-contains,`contains`>>
* <<condition-regexp,`regexp`>>
* <<condition-range, `range`>>
* <<condition-network, `network`>>
* <<condition-has_fields, `has_fields`>>
* <<condition-or, `or`>>
* <<condition-and, `and`>>
* <<condition-not, `not`>>


[float]
[[condition-equals]]
===== `equals`

With the `equals` condition, you can compare if a field has a certain value.
The condition accepts only an integer or a string value.

For example, the following condition checks if the response code of the HTTP
transaction is 200:

[source,yaml]
-------
equals:
  http.response.code: 200
-------

[float]
[[condition-contains]]
===== `contains`

The `contains` condition checks if a value is part of a field. The field can be
a string or an array of strings. The condition accepts only a string value.

For example, the following condition checks if an error is part of the
transaction status:

[source,yaml]
------
contains:
  status: "Specific error"
------

[float]
[[condition-regexp]]
===== `regexp`

The `regexp` condition checks the field against a regular expression. The
condition accepts only strings.

For example, the following condition checks if the process name starts with
`foo`:

[source,yaml]
-----
regexp:
  system.process.name: "^foo.*"
-----

[float]
[[condition-range]]
===== `range`

The `range` condition checks if the field is in a certain range of values. The
condition supports `lt`, `lte`, `gt` and `gte`. The condition accepts only
integer or float values.

For example, the following condition checks for failed HTTP transactions by
comparing the `http.response.code` field with 400.


[source,yaml]
------
range:
  http.response.code:
    gte: 400
------

This can also be written as:

[source,yaml]
----
range:
  http.response.code.gte: 400
----

The following condition checks if the CPU usage in percentage has a value
between 0.5 and 0.8.

[source,yaml]
------
range:
  system.cpu.user.pct.gte: 0.5
  system.cpu.user.pct.lt: 0.8
------

[float]
[[condition-network]]
===== `network`

The `network` condition checks if the field is in a certain IP network range.
Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported. The network range may be specified
using CIDR notation, like "192.0.2.0/24" or "2001:db8::/32", or by using one of
these named ranges:

- `loopback` - Matches loopback addresses in the range of `127.0.0.0/8` or
  `::1/128`.
- `unicast` - Matches global unicast addresses defined in RFC 1122, RFC 4632,
  and RFC 4291 with the exception of the IPv4 broadcast address
  (`255.255.255.255`). This includes private address ranges.
- `multicast` - Matches multicast addresses.
- `interface_local_multicast` - Matches IPv6 interface-local multicast addresses.
- `link_local_unicast` - Matches link-local unicast addresses.
- `link_local_multicast` - Matches link-local multicast addresses.
- `private` - Matches private address ranges defined in RFC 1918 (IPv4) and
  RFC 4193 (IPv6).
- `public` - Matches addresses that are not loopback, unspecified, IPv4
  broadcast, link local unicast, link local multicast, interface local
  multicast, or private.
- `unspecified` - Matches unspecified addresses (either the IPv4 address
  "0.0.0.0" or the IPv6 address "::").

The following condition returns true if the `source.ip` value is within the
private address space.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  source.ip: private
----

This condition returns true if the `destination.ip` value is within the
IPv4 range of `192.168.1.0` - `192.168.1.255`.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  destination.ip: '192.168.1.0/24'
----

And this condition returns true when `destination.ip` is within any of the given
subnets.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  destination.ip: ['192.168.1.0/24', '10.0.0.0/8', loopback]
----

[float]
[[condition-has_fields]]
===== `has_fields`

The `has_fields` condition checks if all the given fields exist in the
event. The condition accepts a list of string values denoting the field names.

For example, the following condition checks if the `http.response.code` field
is present in the event.


[source,yaml]
------
has_fields: ['http.response.code']
------


[float]
[[condition-or]]
===== `or`

The `or` operator receives a list of conditions.

[source,yaml]
-------
or:
  - <condition1>
  - <condition2>
  - <condition3>
  ...

-------

For example, to configure the condition
`http.response.code = 304 OR http.response.code = 404`:

[source,yaml]
------
or:
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 304
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 404
------

[float]
[[condition-and]]
===== `and`

The `and` operator receives a list of conditions.

[source,yaml]
-------
and:
  - <condition1>
  - <condition2>
  - <condition3>
  ...

-------

For example, to configure the condition
`http.response.code = 200 AND status = OK`:

[source,yaml]
------
and:
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 200
  - equals:
      status: OK
------

To configure a condition like `<condition1> OR <condition2> AND <condition3>`:

[source,yaml]
------
or:
  - <condition1>
  - and:
    - <condition2>
    - <condition3>

------

[float]
[[condition-not]]
===== `not`

The `not` operator receives the condition to negate.

[source,yaml]
-------
not:
  <condition>

-------

For example, to configure the condition `NOT status = OK`:

[source,yaml]
------
not:
  equals:
    status: OK
------

include::processors-list.asciidoc[tag=processors-include]

Commit message:

Make  condition work with numeric values as strings. (#38080)

libbeat/docs/processors-using.asciidoc, after:

[[defining-processors]]
=== Define processors

You can use processors to filter and enhance data before sending it to the
configured output. To define a processor, you specify the processor name, an
optional condition, and a set of parameters:

[source,yaml]
------
processors:
  - <processor_name>:
      when:
        <condition>
      <parameters>

  - <processor_name>:
      when:
        <condition>
      <parameters>

...
------

Where:

* `<processor_name>` specifies a <<processors,processor>> that performs some kind
of action, such as selecting the fields that are exported or adding metadata to
the event.
* `<condition>` specifies an optional <<conditions,condition>>. If the
condition is present, then the action is executed only if the condition is
fulfilled. If no condition is set, then the action is always executed.
* `<parameters>` is the list of parameters to pass to the processor.

More complex conditional processing can be accomplished by using the
if-then-else processor configuration. This allows multiple processors to be
executed based on a single condition.

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - if:
      <condition>
    then: <1>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      ...
    else: <2>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      - <processor_name>:
          <parameters>
      ...
----
<1> `then` must contain a single processor or a list of one or more processors
to execute when the condition evaluates to true.
<2> `else` is optional. It can contain a single processor or a list of
processors to execute when the conditional evaluate to false.

[[where-valid]]
==== Where are processors valid?

// TODO: ANY NEW BEATS THAT RE-USE THIS TOPIC NEED TO DEFINE processor-scope.

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
:processor-scope: input
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]
:processor-scope: module
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
:processor-scope: module
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="packetbeat"]
:processor-scope: protocol
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
:processor-scope: monitor
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
:processor-scope: event log shipper
endif::[]

Processors are valid:

* At the top-level in the configuration. The processor is applied to all data
collected by {beatname_uc}.
* Under a specific {processor-scope}. The processor is applied to the data
collected for that {processor-scope}.
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
------
- type: <input_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
...
------
+
Similarly, for {beatname_uc} modules, you can define processors under the
`input` section of the module definition.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
- module: <module_name>
  metricsets: ["<metricset_name>"]
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
auditbeat.modules:
- module: <module_name>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="packetbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
packetbeat.protocols:
- type: <protocol_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----

* Under `packetbeat.flows`. The processor is applied to the data in
<<configuration-flows,network flows>>:
+
[source,yaml]
----
packetbeat.flows:
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: <monitor_type>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
+
[source,yaml]
----
winlogbeat.event_logs:
- name: <network_shipper_name>
  processors:
    - <processor_name>:
        when:
          <condition>
        <parameters>
----
endif::[]


[[processors]]
==== Processors

The supported processors are:

include::processors-list.asciidoc[tag=processors-list]

[[conditions]]
==== Conditions

Each condition receives a field to compare. You can specify multiple fields
under the same condition by using `AND` between the fields (for example,
`field1 AND field2`).

For each field, you can specify a simple field name or a nested map, for example
`dns.question.name`.

See <<exported-fields>> for a list of all the fields that are exported by
{beatname_uc}.

The supported conditions are:

* <<condition-equals,`equals`>>
* <<condition-contains,`contains`>>
* <<condition-regexp,`regexp`>>
* <<condition-range, `range`>>
* <<condition-network, `network`>>
* <<condition-has_fields, `has_fields`>>
* <<condition-or, `or`>>
* <<condition-and, `and`>>
* <<condition-not, `not`>>


[float]
[[condition-equals]]
===== `equals`

With the `equals` condition, you can compare if a field has a certain value.
The condition accepts only an integer or a string value.

For example, the following condition checks if the response code of the HTTP
transaction is 200:

[source,yaml]
-------
equals:
  http.response.code: 200
-------

[float]
[[condition-contains]]
===== `contains`

The `contains` condition checks if a value is part of a field. The field can be
a string or an array of strings. The condition accepts only a string value.

For example, the following condition checks if an error is part of the
transaction status:

[source,yaml]
------
contains:
  status: "Specific error"
------

[float]
[[condition-regexp]]
===== `regexp`

The `regexp` condition checks the field against a regular expression. The
condition accepts only strings.

For example, the following condition checks if the process name starts with
`foo`:

[source,yaml]
-----
regexp:
  system.process.name: "^foo.*"
-----

[float]
[[condition-range]]
===== `range`

The `range` condition checks if the field is in a certain range of values. The
condition supports `lt`, `lte`, `gt` and `gte`. The condition accepts only
integer, float, or strings that can be converted to either of these as values.

For example, the following condition checks for failed HTTP transactions by
comparing the `http.response.code` field with 400.


[source,yaml]
------
range:
  http.response.code:
    gte: 400
------

This can also be written as:

[source,yaml]
----
range:
  http.response.code.gte: 400
----

The following condition checks if the CPU usage in percentage has a value
between 0.5 and 0.8.

[source,yaml]
------
range:
  system.cpu.user.pct.gte: 0.5
  system.cpu.user.pct.lt: 0.8
------

[float]
[[condition-network]]
===== `network`

The `network` condition checks if the field is in a certain IP network range.
Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported. The network range may be specified
using CIDR notation, like "192.0.2.0/24" or "2001:db8::/32", or by using one of
these named ranges:

- `loopback` - Matches loopback addresses in the range of `127.0.0.0/8` or
  `::1/128`.
- `unicast` - Matches global unicast addresses defined in RFC 1122, RFC 4632,
  and RFC 4291 with the exception of the IPv4 broadcast address
  (`255.255.255.255`). This includes private address ranges.
- `multicast` - Matches multicast addresses.
- `interface_local_multicast` - Matches IPv6 interface-local multicast addresses.
- `link_local_unicast` - Matches link-local unicast addresses.
- `link_local_multicast` - Matches link-local multicast addresses.
- `private` - Matches private address ranges defined in RFC 1918 (IPv4) and
  RFC 4193 (IPv6).
- `public` - Matches addresses that are not loopback, unspecified, IPv4
  broadcast, link local unicast, link local multicast, interface local
  multicast, or private.
- `unspecified` - Matches unspecified addresses (either the IPv4 address
  "0.0.0.0" or the IPv6 address "::").

The following condition returns true if the `source.ip` value is within the
private address space.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  source.ip: private
----

This condition returns true if the `destination.ip` value is within the
IPv4 range of `192.168.1.0` - `192.168.1.255`.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  destination.ip: '192.168.1.0/24'
----

And this condition returns true when `destination.ip` is within any of the given
subnets.

[source,yaml]
----
network:
  destination.ip: ['192.168.1.0/24', '10.0.0.0/8', loopback]
----

[float]
[[condition-has_fields]]
===== `has_fields`

The `has_fields` condition checks if all the given fields exist in the
event. The condition accepts a list of string values denoting the field names.

For example, the following condition checks if the `http.response.code` field
is present in the event.


[source,yaml]
------
has_fields: ['http.response.code']
------


[float]
[[condition-or]]
===== `or`

The `or` operator receives a list of conditions.

[source,yaml]
-------
or:
  - <condition1>
  - <condition2>
  - <condition3>
  ...

-------

For example, to configure the condition
`http.response.code = 304 OR http.response.code = 404`:

[source,yaml]
------
or:
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 304
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 404
------

[float]
[[condition-and]]
===== `and`

The `and` operator receives a list of conditions.

[source,yaml]
-------
and:
  - <condition1>
  - <condition2>
  - <condition3>
  ...

-------

For example, to configure the condition
`http.response.code = 200 AND status = OK`:

[source,yaml]
------
and:
  - equals:
      http.response.code: 200
  - equals:
      status: OK
------

To configure a condition like `<condition1> OR <condition2> AND <condition3>`:

[source,yaml]
------
or:
  - <condition1>
  - and:
    - <condition2>
    - <condition3>

------

[float]
[[condition-not]]
===== `not`

The `not` operator receives the condition to negate.

[source,yaml]
-------
not:
  <condition>

-------

For example, to configure the condition `NOT status = OK`:

[source,yaml]
------
not:
  equals:
    status: OK
------

include::processors-list.asciidoc[tag=processors-include]
