libbeat/docs/shared-ssl-config.asciidoc, before:

[[configuration-ssl]]
ifndef::apm-server[]
== Specify SSL settings
endif::apm-server[]
ifdef::apm-server[]
== SSL output settings

You can specify SSL options with any output that supports SSL, like {es}, {ls}, or Kafka.
endif::[]

ifndef::apm-server[]
You can specify SSL options when you configure:

* <<configuring-output,outputs>> that support SSL
* the <<setup-kibana-endpoint,Kibana endpoint>>
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
* <<configuration-heartbeat-options,{beatname_uc} monitors>> that support SSL
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
* <<metricbeat-modules,modules>> that define the host as an HTTP URL
endif::[]
endif::[]

Example output config with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
output.elasticsearch.hosts: ["https://192.168.1.42:9200"]
output.elasticsearch.ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]
output.elasticsearch.ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
output.elasticsearch.ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
Also see <<configuring-ssl-logstash>>.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_kibana[]
Example Kibana endpoint config with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.kibana.host: "https://192.0.2.255:5601"
setup.kibana.ssl.enabled: true
setup.kibana.ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]
setup.kibana.ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
setup.kibana.ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----
endif::no_kibana[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
Example monitor with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: tcp
  schedule: '@every 5s'
  hosts: ["myhost"]
  ports: [80, 9200, 5044]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['/etc/ca.crt']
    supported_protocols: ["TLSv1.0", "TLSv1.1", "TLSv1.2"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
Example module with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: http
  namespace: "myservice"
  enabled: true
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["https://localhost"]
  path: "/stats"
  headers:
    Authorization: "Bearer test123"
  ssl.verification_mode: "none"
----
endif::[]

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `ssl` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
==== `enabled`

The `enabled` setting can be used to disable the ssl configuration by setting
it to `false`. The default value is `true`.

NOTE: SSL settings are disabled if either `enabled` is set to `false` or the
`ssl` section is missing.

[float]
==== `certificate_authorities`

The list of root certificates for server verifications. If `certificate_authorities` is empty or not set, the trusted certificate authorities of the host system are used.

[float]
[[certificate]]
==== `certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"`

The path to the certificate for SSL client authentication. If the certificate
is not specified, client authentication is not available. The connection
might fail if the server requests client authentication. If the SSL server does not
require client authentication, the certificate will be loaded, but not requested or used
by the server.

When this option is configured, the <<key,`key`>> option is also required.

[float]
[[key]]
==== `key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"`

The client certificate key used for client authentication. This option is required if <<certificate,`certificate`>> is specified.

[float]
==== `key_passphrase`

The passphrase used to decrypt an encrypted key stored in the configured `key` file.

[float]
==== `supported_protocols`

List of allowed SSL/TLS versions. If SSL/TLS server decides for protocol versions
not configured, the connection will be dropped during or after the handshake. The
setting is a list of allowed protocol versions:
`SSLv3`, `TLSv1` for TLS version 1.0, `TLSv1.0`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, and
`TLSv1.3`.

The default value is `[TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]`.

[float]
==== `verification_mode`

This option controls whether the client verifies server certificates and host
names. Valid values are `none` and `full`. If `verification_mode` is set
to `none`, all server host names and certificates are accepted. In this mode,
TLS-based connections are susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks. Use this
option for testing only.

The default is `full`.

[float]
==== `cipher_suites`

The list of cipher suites to use. The first entry has the highest priority.
If this option is omitted, the Go crypto library's default
suites are used (recommended). Note that TLS 1.3 cipher suites are not
individually configurable in Go, so they are not included in this list.

The following cipher suites are available:

* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default - RC4 not recommended)
* ECDHE-RSA-3DES-CBC3-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1205 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default- RC4 not recommended)
* RSA-3DES-CBC3-SHA
* RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* RSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* RSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* RSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* RSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default - RC4 not recommended)

Here is a list of acronyms used in defining the cipher suites:

* 3DES:
  Cipher suites using triple DES

* AES-128/256:
  Cipher suites using AES with 128/256-bit keys.

* CBC:
  Cipher using Cipher Block Chaining as block cipher mode.

* ECDHE:
  Cipher suites using Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (DH) ephemeral key exchange.

* ECDSA:
  Cipher suites using Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm for authentication.

* GCM:
  Galois/Counter mode is used for symmetric key cryptography.

* RC4:
  Cipher suites using RC4.

* RSA:
  Cipher suites using RSA.

* SHA, SHA256, SHA384:
  Cipher suites using SHA-1, SHA-256 or SHA-384.

[float]
==== `curve_types`

The list of curve types for ECDHE (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman ephemeral key exchange).

The following elliptic curve types are available:

* P-256
* P-384
* P-521
* X25519

[float]
==== `renegotiation`

This configures what types of TLS renegotiation are supported. The valid options
are `never`, `once`, and `freely`. The default value is never.

* `never` - Disables renegotiation.
* `once` - Allows a remote server to request renegotiation once per connection.
* `freely` - Allows a remote server to repeatedly request renegotiation.

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}" == "filebeat"]
[float]
==== `client_authentication`

This configures what types of client authentication are supported. The valid options
are `none`, `optional`, and `required`. When `certificate_authorities` is set it will
default to `required` otherwise it will be set to `none`.

NOTE: This option is only valid with the TCP or the Syslog input.

* `none` - Disables client authentication.
* `optional` - When a client certificate is given, the server will verify it.
* `required` - Will require clients to provide a valid certificate.
endif::[]

Commit message:

[Agent] Allow CA cert pinning on the Elasticsearch output or any code that user tlscommon.TLSConfig builder. (#16019) (#16675)
* Add a sha256 pin for the CA Certificate

When multiples CA are presents on the system we cannot ensure that a
specific one was used to validates the chains exposer by the server.
This PRs adds a `ca_sha256` option to the `tlscommon.TLSConfig` that is used by all
the code that has to create a TCP client with TLS support.

When the option is set, it will hook a new callback in the validation
chains that will inspect the verified and validated chains by Go to
ensure that a lets a certificate in the chains match the provided
sha256.

Usage example for the Elasticsearch output.

```
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: [127.0.0.1:9200]
  ssl.ca_sha256: <base64_encoded_sha1>
```

You can generate the pin using the **openssl** binary with the
following command:

```
openssl x509 -in ca.crt -pubkey -noout | openssl pkey -pubin -outform der | openssl dgst -sha256 -binary | openssl enc -base64
```

OpenSSL's [documentation](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man1/dgst.html)

You will need to start Elasticsearch with the following options

```yaml
xpack.security.enabled: true
indices.id_field_data.enabled: true
xpack.license.self_generated.type: trial
xpack.security.http.ssl.enabled: true
xpack.security.http.ssl.key: /etc/pki/localhost/localhost.key"
xpack.security.http.ssl.certificate: /etc/pki/localhost/localhost.crt"
xpack.security.http.ssl.certificate_authorities: /etc/pki/ca/ca.crt"
```

This pull request also include a new service in the docker-compose.yml
that will start a new Elasticsearch server with TLS and security
configured.

(cherry picked from commit 0d9f03e1d62691622a6345981d34c891b561072a)

libbeat/docs/shared-ssl-config.asciidoc, after:

[[configuration-ssl]]
ifndef::apm-server[]
== Specify SSL settings
endif::apm-server[]
ifdef::apm-server[]
== SSL output settings

You can specify SSL options with any output that supports SSL, like {es}, {ls}, or Kafka.
endif::[]

ifndef::apm-server[]
You can specify SSL options when you configure:

* <<configuring-output,outputs>> that support SSL
* the <<setup-kibana-endpoint,Kibana endpoint>>
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
* <<configuration-heartbeat-options,{beatname_uc} monitors>> that support SSL
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
* <<metricbeat-modules,modules>> that define the host as an HTTP URL
endif::[]
endif::[]

Example output config with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
output.elasticsearch.hosts: ["https://192.168.1.42:9200"]
output.elasticsearch.ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]
output.elasticsearch.ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
output.elasticsearch.ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
Also see <<configuring-ssl-logstash>>.
endif::[]

ifndef::no_kibana[]
Example Kibana endpoint config with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.kibana.host: "https://192.0.2.255:5601"
setup.kibana.ssl.enabled: true
setup.kibana.ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]
setup.kibana.ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
setup.kibana.ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----
endif::no_kibana[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="heartbeat"]
Example monitor with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: tcp
  schedule: '@every 5s'
  hosts: ["myhost"]
  ports: [80, 9200, 5044]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['/etc/ca.crt']
    supported_protocols: ["TLSv1.0", "TLSv1.1", "TLSv1.2"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
Example module with SSL enabled:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: http
  namespace: "myservice"
  enabled: true
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["https://localhost"]
  path: "/stats"
  headers:
    Authorization: "Bearer test123"
  ssl.verification_mode: "none"
----
endif::[]

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `ssl` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
==== `enabled`

The `enabled` setting can be used to disable the ssl configuration by setting
it to `false`. The default value is `true`.

NOTE: SSL settings are disabled if either `enabled` is set to `false` or the
`ssl` section is missing.

[float]
==== `certificate_authorities`

The list of root certificates for server verifications. If `certificate_authorities` is empty or not set, the trusted certificate authorities of the host system are used.

[float]
[[certificate]]
==== `certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"`

The path to the certificate for SSL client authentication. If the certificate
is not specified, client authentication is not available. The connection
might fail if the server requests client authentication. If the SSL server does not
require client authentication, the certificate will be loaded, but not requested or used
by the server.

When this option is configured, the <<key,`key`>> option is also required.

[float]
[[key]]
==== `key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"`

The client certificate key used for client authentication. This option is required if <<certificate,`certificate`>> is specified.

[float]
==== `key_passphrase`

The passphrase used to decrypt an encrypted key stored in the configured `key` file.

[float]
==== `supported_protocols`

List of allowed SSL/TLS versions. If SSL/TLS server decides for protocol versions
not configured, the connection will be dropped during or after the handshake. The
setting is a list of allowed protocol versions:
`SSLv3`, `TLSv1` for TLS version 1.0, `TLSv1.0`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, and
`TLSv1.3`.

The default value is `[TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]`.

[float]
==== `verification_mode`

This option controls whether the client verifies server certificates and host
names. Valid values are `none` and `full`. If `verification_mode` is set
to `none`, all server host names and certificates are accepted. In this mode,
TLS-based connections are susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks. Use this
option for testing only.

The default is `full`.

[float]
==== `cipher_suites`

The list of cipher suites to use. The first entry has the highest priority.
If this option is omitted, the Go crypto library's default
suites are used (recommended). Note that TLS 1.3 cipher suites are not
individually configurable in Go, so they are not included in this list.

The following cipher suites are available:

* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-ECDSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-ECDSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default - RC4 not recommended)
* ECDHE-RSA-3DES-CBC3-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* ECDHE-RSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1205 (TLS 1.2 only)
* ECDHE-RSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default- RC4 not recommended)
* RSA-3DES-CBC3-SHA
* RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA
* RSA-AES-128-CBC-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only, disabled by default)
* RSA-AES-128-GCM-SHA256 (TLS 1.2 only)
* RSA-AES-256-CBC-SHA
* RSA-AES-256-GCM-SHA384 (TLS 1.2 only)
* RSA-RC4-128-SHA (disabled by default - RC4 not recommended)

Here is a list of acronyms used in defining the cipher suites:

* 3DES:
  Cipher suites using triple DES

* AES-128/256:
  Cipher suites using AES with 128/256-bit keys.

* CBC:
  Cipher using Cipher Block Chaining as block cipher mode.

* ECDHE:
  Cipher suites using Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (DH) ephemeral key exchange.

* ECDSA:
  Cipher suites using Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm for authentication.

* GCM:
  Galois/Counter mode is used for symmetric key cryptography.

* RC4:
  Cipher suites using RC4.

* RSA:
  Cipher suites using RSA.

* SHA, SHA256, SHA384:
  Cipher suites using SHA-1, SHA-256 or SHA-384.

[float]
==== `curve_types`

The list of curve types for ECDHE (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman ephemeral key exchange).

The following elliptic curve types are available:

* P-256
* P-384
* P-521
* X25519

[float]
==== `renegotiation`

This configures what types of TLS renegotiation are supported. The valid options
are `never`, `once`, and `freely`. The default value is never.

* `never` - Disables renegotiation.
* `once` - Allows a remote server to request renegotiation once per connection.
* `freely` - Allows a remote server to repeatedly request renegotiation.


[float]
==== `ca_sha256`

This configure a certificate pin can that ca be used to ensure that a specific certificate is used
to as part of the verified chain.

The pin is a base64 encoded string of the SHA-256 of the certificate.

NOTE: This check is not a replacement for the normal SSL validation but it add additional validation.
If this option is used with  `verification_mode` set to `none`, the check will always fail because
it will not receive any verified chains.


ifeval::["{beatname_lc}" == "filebeat"]
[float]
==== `client_authentication`

This configures what types of client authentication are supported. The valid options
are `none`, `optional`, and `required`. When `certificate_authorities` is set it will
default to `required` otherwise it will be set to `none`.

NOTE: This option is only valid with the TCP or the Syslog input.

* `none` - Disables client authentication.
* `optional` - When a client certificate is given, the server will verify it.
* `required` - Will require clients to provide a valid certificate.
endif::[]
