libbeat/docs/shared-ilm.asciidoc, before:

[[ilm]]
[role="xpack"]
== Configure index lifecycle management

Use the {ref}/getting-started-index-lifecycle-management.html[index lifecycle
management] feature in {es} to manage your {beatname_uc} indices as they age.
For example, instead of creating daily indices where index size can vary based
on the number of Beats and number of events sent, use an index lifecycle policy
to automate a rollover to a new index when the existing index reaches a
specified size or age.

Starting with version 7.0, {beatname_uc} uses index lifecycle management by
default when it connects to a cluster that supports lifecycle management.
{beatname_uc} loads the default policy automatically and applies it to any
indices created by {beatname_uc}.

You can view and edit the policy in the *Index lifecycle policies* UI in {kib}.
For more information about working with the UI, see
{kibana-ref}/index-lifecycle-policies.html[Index lifecyle policies].

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
setup.ilm.enabled: auto
setup.ilm.rollover_alias: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.ilm.pattern: "{now/d}-000001" <1>
----
<1> Date math is supported here. For more information, see
{ref}/indices-rollover-index.html#_using_date_math_with_the_rollover_api[Using
date math with the rollover API].

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following settings in the `setup.ilm` section of the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
[[setup-ilm-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.enabled`

Enables or disables index lifecycle management on any new indices created by
{beatname_uc}. Valid values are `true`, `false`, and `auto`. When `auto` (the
default) is specified on version 7.0 and later, {beatname_uc} automatically uses
index lifecycle management if the feature is enabled in {es} and has the
required license; otherwise, {beatname_uc} creates daily indices.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-rollover_alias-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.rollover_alias`

The index lifecycle write alias name. The default is
+{beatname_lc}-%{[{beat_version_key}]}+. Setting this option changes the alias name.

NOTE: If you modify this setting after loading the index template, you must
overwrite the template to apply the changes.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-pattern-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.pattern`

The rollover index pattern. The default is `%{now/d}-000001`.

Date math is supported in this setting. For example:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.ilm.pattern: "{now/M{yyyy.MM}}-000001"
----

For more information, see
{ref}/indices-rollover-index.html#_using_date_math_with_the_rollover_api[Using
date math with the rollover API].

NOTE: If you modify this setting after loading the index template, you must
overwrite the template to apply the changes.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-policy_name-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.policy_name`

The name to use for the lifecycle policy. The default is
+{beatname_lc}+.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-policy_file-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.policy_file`

The path to a JSON file that contains a lifecycle policy configuration. Use this
setting to load your own lifecycle policy.

For more information about lifecycle policies, see
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Set up index lifecycle management policy] in
the _{es} Reference_.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-check_exists-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.check_exists`

When set to `false`, disables the check for an existing lifecycle policy. The
default is `true`. You need to disable this check if the {beatname_uc}
user connecting to a secured cluster doesn't have the `read_ilm` privilege.

If you set this option to `false`, set `setup.ilm.overwrite: true` so the
lifecycle policy can be installed.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-overwrite-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.overwrite`

When set to `true`, the lifecycle policy is overwritten at startup. The default
is `false`.

Commit message:

[docs] Clarify how ILM affects template setup options (#16704) (#16910)
Co-authored-by: chrousto <christophe.chazeau@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: chrousto <christophe.chazeau@gmail.com>

libbeat/docs/shared-ilm.asciidoc, after:

[[ilm]]
[role="xpack"]
== Configure index lifecycle management

Use the {ref}/getting-started-index-lifecycle-management.html[index lifecycle
management] (ILM) feature in {es} to manage your {beatname_uc} indices as they age.
For example, instead of creating daily indices where index size can vary based
on the number of Beats and number of events sent, use an index lifecycle policy
to automate a rollover to a new index when the existing index reaches a
specified size or age.

Starting with version 7.0, {beatname_uc} uses index lifecycle management by
default when it connects to a cluster that supports lifecycle management.
{beatname_uc} loads the default policy automatically and applies it to any
indices created by {beatname_uc}.

You can view and edit the policy in the *Index lifecycle policies* UI in {kib}.
For more information about working with the UI, see
{kibana-ref}/index-lifecycle-policies.html[Index lifecyle policies].

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
setup.ilm.enabled: auto
setup.ilm.rollover_alias: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.ilm.pattern: "{now/d}-000001" <1>
----
<1> Date math is supported here. For more information, see
{ref}/indices-rollover-index.html#_using_date_math_with_the_rollover_api[Using
date math with the rollover API].

WARNING: If <<ilm,index lifecycle management>> is enabled (which is typically the default), `setup.template.name` and `setup.template.pattern` are ignored.

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following settings in the `setup.ilm` section of the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
[[setup-ilm-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.enabled`

Enables or disables index lifecycle management on any new indices created by
{beatname_uc}. Valid values are `true`, `false`, and `auto`. When `auto` (the
default) is specified on version 7.0 and later, {beatname_uc} automatically uses
index lifecycle management if the feature is enabled in {es} and has the
required license; otherwise, {beatname_uc} creates daily indices.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-rollover_alias-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.rollover_alias`

The index lifecycle write alias name. The default is
+{beatname_lc}-%{[{beat_version_key}]}+. Setting this option changes the alias name.

NOTE: If you modify this setting after loading the index template, you must
overwrite the template to apply the changes.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-pattern-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.pattern`

The rollover index pattern. The default is `%{now/d}-000001`.

Date math is supported in this setting. For example:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.ilm.pattern: "{now/M{yyyy.MM}}-000001"
----

For more information, see
{ref}/indices-rollover-index.html#_using_date_math_with_the_rollover_api[Using
date math with the rollover API].

NOTE: If you modify this setting after loading the index template, you must
overwrite the template to apply the changes.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-policy_name-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.policy_name`

The name to use for the lifecycle policy. The default is
+{beatname_lc}+.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-policy_file-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.policy_file`

The path to a JSON file that contains a lifecycle policy configuration. Use this
setting to load your own lifecycle policy.

For more information about lifecycle policies, see
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Set up index lifecycle management policy] in
the _{es} Reference_.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-check_exists-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.check_exists`

When set to `false`, disables the check for an existing lifecycle policy. The
default is `true`. You need to disable this check if the {beatname_uc}
user connecting to a secured cluster doesn't have the `read_ilm` privilege.

If you set this option to `false`, set `setup.ilm.overwrite: true` so the
lifecycle policy can be installed.

[float]
[[setup-ilm-overwrite-option]]
==== `setup.ilm.overwrite`

When set to `true`, the lifecycle policy is overwritten at startup. The default
is `false`.
