libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc, before:

. If {es} and {kib} are secured, set credentials in the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config
file before you run the commands that set up and start {beatname_uc}.

* If you're running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {ess}]
on {ecloud}, specify your <<configure-cloud-id,cloud auth>> credentials.
For example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.auth: "elastic:{pwd}"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* If you're running {es} on your own hardware, specify your {es} and {kib}
credentials:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
  username: "filebeat_internal"
  password: "{pwd}" <1>
setup.kibana:
  host: "mykibanahost:5601"
  username: "my_kibana_user" <2> <3>
  password: "{pwd}"
----
<1> This examples shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
<2> The `username` and `password` settings for {kib} are optional. If you don't
specify credentials for {kib}, {beatname_uc} uses the `username` and `password`
specified for the {es} output.
<3> To use the pre-built Kibana dashboards, this user must have the
`kibana_user` {xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role] or equivalent
privileges.
+
For more information, see <<securing-{beatname_lc}>>.

Commit message:

[docs] Recommend env variables rather than keystore for functionbeat (#16010) (#16080)

libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc, after:

. If {es} and {kib} are secured, set credentials in the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config
file before you run the commands that set up and start {beatname_uc}.

* If you're running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {ess}]
on {ecloud}, specify your <<configure-cloud-id,cloud auth>> credentials.
For example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.auth: "elastic:{pwd}"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* If you're running {es} on your own hardware, specify your {es} and {kib}
credentials:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
  username: "filebeat_internal"
  password: "{pwd}" <1>
setup.kibana:
  host: "mykibanahost:5601"
  username: "my_kibana_user" <2> <3>
  password: "{pwd}"
----
<1> This examples shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values
ifndef::serverless[]
in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
endif::[]
ifdef::serverless[]
in environment variables.
endif::[]
<2> The `username` and `password` settings for {kib} are optional. If you don't
specify credentials for {kib}, {beatname_uc} uses the `username` and `password`
specified for the {es} output.
<3> To use the pre-built Kibana dashboards, this user must have the
`kibana_user` {xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role] or equivalent
privileges.
+
For more information, see <<securing-{beatname_lc}>>.
