libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc, before:

ifndef::has_module_steps[]
ifndef::only-elasticsearch[]
. Configure the output. {beatname_uc} supports a variety of
<<configuring-output,outputs>>, but typically you'll either send events directly
to {es}, or to {ls} for additional processing.
+
To send output directly to {es} (without using {ls}), set the location of the
{es} installation:
+
endif::only-elasticsearch[]
ifdef::only-elasticsearch[]
. Configure the  {es} output by setting the location of the {es} installation:
+
endif::only-elasticsearch[]
endif::has_module_steps[]
* If you're running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {es} Service]
on Elastic Cloud, specify your <<configure-cloud-id,Cloud ID>>. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.id: "staging:dXMtZWFzdC0xLmF3cy5mb3VuZC5pbyRjZWM2ZjI2MWE3NGJmMjRjZTMzYmI4ODExYjg0Mjk0ZiRjNmMyY2E2ZDA0MjI0OWFmMGNjN2Q3YTllOTYyNTc0Mw=="
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* If you're running {es} on your own hardware, set the host and port where
{beatname_uc} can find the {es} installation. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
ifndef::has_module_steps[]
+
ifndef::only-elasticsearch[]
To send output to {ls}, 
<<logstash-output,Configure the {ls} output>> instead. For all other
outputs, see <<configuring-output>>.
endif::only-elasticsearch[]
ifdef::only-elasticsearch[]
{es} is currently the only output supported by {beatname_uc}.
endif::only-elasticsearch[]
endif::has_module_steps[]

Commit message:

Add Logstash output to functionbeat and refactor Logstash output docs (#13818) (#13838)
* Refactor logstash output docs

* Add logstash output to functionbeat

* Fix conditional coding to be more flexible

* Resolve review feedback

libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc, after:

ifndef::has_module_steps[]
ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
. Configure the output. {beatname_uc} supports a variety of
<<configuring-output,outputs>>, but typically you'll either send events directly
to {es}, or to {ls} for additional processing.
+
To send output directly to {es} (without using {ls}), set the location of the
{es} installation:
+
endif::[]
ifdef::no-output-logstash[]
. Configure the {es} output by setting the location of the {es} installation:
+
endif::[]
endif::has_module_steps[]
* If you're running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {es} Service]
on Elastic Cloud, specify your <<configure-cloud-id,Cloud ID>>. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
cloud.id: "staging:dXMtZWFzdC0xLmF3cy5mb3VuZC5pbyRjZWM2ZjI2MWE3NGJmMjRjZTMzYmI4ODExYjg0Mjk0ZiRjNmMyY2E2ZDA0MjI0OWFmMGNjN2Q3YTllOTYyNTc0Mw=="
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* If you're running {es} on your own hardware, set the host and port where
{beatname_uc} can find the {es} installation. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
ifndef::has_module_steps[]
+
ifndef::no-output-logstash[]
To send output to {ls}, 
<<logstash-output,Configure the {ls} output>> instead. For all other
outputs, see <<configuring-output>>.
endif::[]
ifdef::no-output-logstash[]
For more information, see <<configuring-output>>.
endif::[]
endif::has_module_steps[]
