libbeat/docs/upgrading.asciidoc, before:

[[upgrading]]
== Upgrading

This section gives general recommendations for upgrading {beats} shippers:

* <<upgrading-minor-versions>>
* <<upgrading-6-to-7>>
* <<troubleshooting-upgrade>>

If you're upgrading other products in the stack, also read the
{stack-ref}/index.html[Elastic Stack Installation and Upgrade Guide]. 

[[upgrading-minor-versions]]
=== Upgrade between minor versions

As a general rule, you can upgrade between minor versions (for example, 7.x to
7.y, where x < y) by simply installing the new release and restarting the Beat
process. {beats} typically maintain backwards compatibility for configuration
settings and exported fields. Please review the
<<release-notes,release notes>> for potential exceptions.

Upgrading between non-consecutive major versions (e.g. 5.x to 7.x) is not
supported.

[[upgrading-6-to-7]]
=== Upgrade from 6.x to 7.x

Before upgrading your {beats}, review the <<breaking-changes,breaking changes>>
and the <<release-notes>>.

If you're upgrading other products in the stack, also read the
{stack-ref}/index.html[Elastic Stack Installation and Upgrade Guide]. 

We recommend that you fully upgrade {es} and {kib} to version 7.0
before upgrading {beats}. If you're on {beats} 6.0 through 6.6,
upgrade the {stack} and {beats} to version 6.7 *before* proceeding with the
7.0 upgrade.

Upgrading between non-consecutive major versions (e.g. 5.x to 7.x) is not
supported.

IMPORTANT: Please read through all upgrade steps before proceeding. These steps
are required before running the software for the first time.

[[upgrading-to-6.7]]
==== Upgrade to {beats} 6.7 before upgrading to 7.0

The upgrade procedure assumes that you have {beats} 6.7 installed. If you're on
a previous 6.x version of {beats}, upgrade to version 6.7 first. If you're using
other products in the {stack}, upgrade {beats} as part of the
{stack-ref}/upgrading-elastic-stack.html[{stack} upgrade process].

Upgrading to 6.7 is required because the {es} index template was modified to
be compatible with {es} 7.0 (the `_type` setting changed from `doc` to `_doc`).

After upgrading to 6.7, use the {ref}/indices-templates.html#getting[Index
Template API] to verify that the 6.7 index template has been created in {ES}.

:asset: the index template
:option: template

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

NOTE: In previous versions, we advised users to manually force loading of the
index template. This is no longer recommended. Use the `setup` command instead.

*Metricbeat and Filebeat users:* If you use {beats} central management,
make sure you migrate the {beats} central management index to 6.7 before you
upgrade to 7.0. Although central management is not a GA-level feature in 7.0,
we've provided a migration tool to help you migrate your configurations from
version 6.6 to 6.7 or later. For more information, see the
https://www.elastic.co/blog/beats-6-7-0-released[Beats 6.7.0 release blog].

==== Upgrade {beats} binaries to 7.0

Before upgrading:

. Stop the existing {beats} process by using the appropriate command for your
system.
. Back up the `data` and `config` directories by copying them to another
location.
+
TIP: The location of these directories depends on the installation method. To
see the current paths, start the Beat from a terminal, and the `data` and
`config` paths are printed at startup.

To upgrade using a Debian or RPM package:

* Use `rpm` or `dpkg` to install the new package. All files are installed in the
appropriate location for the operating system and {beats} config files are not
overwritten.

To upgrade using a zip or compressed tarball:

. Extract the zip or tarball to a _new_ directory. This is critical if you
are not using external `config` and `data` directories.
. Set the following options in the {beats} configuration file:
+
--
* Set `path.config` to point to your external `config` directory. If you are
not using an external `config` directory, copy your old configuration over to
the new installation.
* Set `path.data` to point to your external data directory. If you are not using
an external `data` directory, copy your old data directory over to the new
installation. 
* Set `path.logs` to point to the location where you want to store your logs. If
you do not specify this setting, logs are stored in the directory you extracted
the archive to.
--

Complete the upgrade tasks described in the following sections *before*
restarting the {beats} process.

[[migrate-config-files]]
==== Migrate configuration files

{beats} 7.0 comes with several backwards incompatible configuration changes.
Before upgrading, review the <<breaking-changes-7.0>> document. Also review
the full list of breaking changes in the <<release-notes>> for 7.0.

Where possible, we kept the old configuration options working, but deprecated
them. However, deprecation was not always possible, so if you use any of the
settings described under breaking changes, make sure you understand the
alternatives that we provide.

[[enable-ecs-compatibility]]
==== Enable the compatibility layer for Elastic Common Schema (ECS) fields

Starting with 7.0, the fields exported by {beats} conform to the
{ecs-ref}/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]. Many of the exported fields
have been renamed. See {beats-ref}/breaking-changes-7.0.html[Breaking
changes in 7.0] for the full list of changed names.

To help you transition to the new fields, we provide a compatibility layer in
the form of ECS-compatible field aliases. To use the aliases, set the following
option in the Beat's configuration file *before* you upgrade the {es} index
template to 7.0.

[source,yaml]
----
migration.6_to_7.enabled: true
----

The field aliases let you use 6.x dashboards and visualizations with indices
created by {beats} 7.0 or later. The aliases do *not* work with saved searches
or with API calls that manipulate documents directly. 

Some fields also have type changes in 7.0 that affect the behavior of older
dashboards and visualizations. To clarify:

* *Some fields have type changes.* Your {kib} visualizations and aggregations 
will not work on these fields until the conflicts are resolved.

* *Some fields have name changes, but no type changes.* The field aliases
created by the compatibility layer ensure that visualizations and aggregations
on the old field names work on old and new data. 7.0 dashboards work
only on new field names (and therefore only on new data).

* *Some fields have both name and type changes.* Field aliases are created for
these fields, but your {kib} visualizations and aggregations will not work on
these fields until the conflicts are resolved. Some of your  {es} API queries
may continue to work, if the old and new types are compatible.

// TODO: Add a link to the breaking changes after we've added the list of type
// changes. 
// TODO: Add link to docs about resolving conflicts when they are available.

We strongly advise that you adjust your custom {kib} dashboards, machine
learning jobs, and other content to use the new ECS field names. After removing
all references to old fields, you should set `migration.6_to_7.enabled: false`
so that field aliases will not be created during your next minor upgrade.

The aliases will be removed in 8.0.

TIP: Did you run the Beat or load the index template before reading this section?
That's OK. See the clean-up steps described under <<missing-fields>>.

[[upgrade-index-template]]
==== Upgrade the {es} index template

Index templates and the default index names are versioned. For example,
{metricbeat} {stack-version} typically creates indices like this:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat-{stack-version}-2019.04.02
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And the corresponding {es} index template is named +metricbeat-{stack-version}+.

This means that each version of the Beat creates a new index, and it's
guaranteed that the correct index template for that version is applied. With
these changes in place, you generally don't have to do anything to upgrade the
index template when you move to a new version. Just load the new version of the
index template *before* ingesting any data into {es}. 

If you plan to run {beats} 6.7 and 7.0 in parallel, make sure you
<<enable-ecs-compatibility,enable the compatibility layer>> *before* you load
the index template. 

:asset: the index template
:option: template

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

TIP: When loading the index template, you can also specify
`-E setup.template.settings.index.number_of_shards=n` where `n` is the number of
shards to use for the index. 

[[non-es-outputs]]
==== How to use versioned index templates when the output is not {es}

If you've configured {beats} to send events to a different output, such as {ls},
make sure you use versioned index templates and indices. Otherwise, after you
upgrade, there will be field conflicts.

To use versioned index templates and indices with {ls}, configure your
{ls} pipeline to use the metadata from {beats} to set the index, and allow
Beats to manage the index template:

[source,json]
----
    manage_template => false
    index => "%{[@metadata][beat]}-%{[@metadata][version]}-%{+YYYY.MM.dd}" 
----

When you use this configuration, the index name is set to match the index
pattern in the {beats} index template. See the 
{logstash-ref}/plugins-inputs-beats.html[{beats} input plugin] documentation
for more information.

For other non-{es} outputs, use the metadata from {beats} to set the index, and
allow {beats} to load and manage the index template, as described under
<<upgrade-index-template>>.

IMPORTANT: The index name must match the index pattern in the {beats} index
template. For example, if {ls} sends events to an index called
+metricbeat-7-2019.04.02+, but the index template expects indices to match
+metricbeat-{stack-version}-*+, you may encounter mapping errors and be unable
to index {beats} events.

==== Upgrade dashboards

We recommend that you import the 7.0 {kib} dashboards after upgrading
{kib} and {beats}. This way, you can take advantage of the new dashboards
created for the 7.0 release.

If you've <<enable-ecs-compatibility,enabled the compatibility layer>> before
loading the index template and dashboards, 6.x dashboards can co-exist with
7.0 dashboards and will continue working after the upgrade.

:asset: 7.0 dashboards
:option: dashboards

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

[[migrate-filebeat-registry]]
==== Migrate {filebeat} registry to use new format

Starting with version 7.0, {filebeat} stores the registry in a directory
structure. If Filebeat finds an old registry file at the path set by
`filebeat.registry.path`, it will automatically migrate the registry file to the
new format. If the registry file is at a different location, set
`filebeat.registry.migrate_file` to point to the file.

The registry changes also require you to rename the following configuration
settings:

[options="header"]
|====
|Old config name | New config name
|`filebeat.registry_file`    | `filebeat.registry.path`.
|`filebeat.registry_file_permissions` | `filebeat.registry.file_permissions`
|`filebeat.registry_flush` | `filebeat.registry.flush`
|====

Before proceeding with the upgrade, make sure you back up the registry file.

[role="xpack"]
[[ilm-on]]
==== Check privileges for index lifecycle management (on by default in 7.0)

Starting with {beats} 7.0, index lifecycle management is on by default when
sending data to {beats} clusters that support it. Make sure {beats} users have
the privileges needed to use index lifecycle management, or disable index
lifecycle management. 

For help troubleshooting authorization issues, see <<user-unauthorized>>.

If you want to disable index lifecycle management, set
`setup.ilm.enabled: false` in the {beats} configuration file.

[[troubleshooting-upgrade]]
=== Troubleshooting {beats} upgrade issues

This section describes common problems you might encounter when upgrading to
{beats} 7.x.

You can avoid some of these problems by reading <<upgrading-6-to-7>> before
upgrading {beats}.

[[missing-fields]]
==== Missing fields or too many fields in the index

You may have run the Beat before loading the required index template. To clean
up and start again:

. Delete the index that was created when you ran the Beat. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
DELETE metricbeat-{stack-version}-2019.04.02*
----
+
WARNING: Be careful when using wildcards to delete indices. Make sure the
pattern matches only the indices you want to delete. The example shown here
deletes all data indexed into the metricbeat-{stack-version} indices on
2019.04.02.

. If you want the index to work with 6.x dashboards, turn on the compatibility
layer. See <<enable-ecs-compatibility>>.

. Delete the index template that was loaded earlier. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
DELETE /_template/metricbeat-{stack-version}
----
+
Because the index template was loaded without the compatibility layer enabled,
the required aliases were not created. 

. Load the correct index template. See <<upgrade-index-template>>.

. Restart {beats}.

[[user-unauthorized]]
==== User is not authorized

Because index lifecycle management is on by default in 7.0, you might encounter
new errors related to user authorization when you run version 7.0 against an
{es} cluster that supports index lifecycle management.

===== `[cluster:monitor/main] is unauthorized for user`

*Problem*: The {beats} user is unable to send monitoring information.

*Solution:* Grant the `monitor` cluster privilege.

===== `[cluster:admin/ilm/put] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* The {beats} user is not authorized to load ILM policies. 

*Solution:* Grant the `manage_ilm` cluster privilege.

===== `[indices:admin/template/put] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* Automatic index template loading is required when ILM is enabled, but the user
is not authorized to manage index templates.

*Solution:* Grant the `manage_index_templates` cluster privilege.

===== `[indices:admin/aliases] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* The {beats} user is unable to set up aliases needed by the compatibility
layer.

*Solution:* Grant the `manage` privilege on the {beats} indices.

===== `[indices:data/write/bulk] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:*  The {beats} user is unable to write events to {es}.

*Solution:* Grant the `index` privilege on the {beats} indices.

[[old-dashboards-failing]]
==== 6.x dashboards not showing data from 7.0 shippers

You might have run the Beat without turning on the compatibility layer. See
<<enable-ecs-compatibility>> then clean up your environment as described
under <<missing-fields>>.

[[logstash-data-missing]]
==== Data parsed by {ls} not appearing in 7.0 dashboards

You might be writing to an index that doesn't match the index pattern used
by {beats}. See <<non-es-outputs>>.


[[dashboard-shard-failed]]
==== "shard failed" error when viewing {beats} dashboards in {kib}

After upgrading to {es} 7.0, any indices created by Beats 6.6 or older will not
work in {kib} dashboards until the `index.query.default_field` setting is added
to each index. Indices created in Beats 6.7 or later are unaffected.

*Background:* Starting in {es} 7.0, some query types, such as Simple Query
String, have a limit to the number of fields they will query against. Because
Beats indices often contain more fields than this cap, the
`index.query.default_field` index setting is used to inform {es} which fields to
use by default when no field is specified for a query.

To add the setting to the index, you can use the 7.0
{kibana-ref}/upgrade-assistant.html[Upgrade Assistant], or add the setting
manually.

To add the setting manually, first identify the list of fields that you want to
set as the default search fields, then specify the list of fields in the
`default_field` setting.

For example, here's a snippet that shows how to add default search fields to a
Metricbeat 6.6 index. This example is truncated. Full examples for Metricbeat
and Filebeat are available in
https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/master/libbeat/docs/troubleshooting/default_field.md[this file]. 

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /metricbeat-6.6.2-2019.04.09/_settings
{
  "index": {
    "query": {
      "default_field": [
        "aerospike.namespace.name",
        "aerospike.namespace.node.host",
        "aerospike.namespace.node.name",
        "apache.status.hostname",
        "beat.hostname",
        "beat.name",
        "beat.timezone",
        "beat.version",
        ...
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add link to blog post about migrating to ECS (#12932) (#13151)

libbeat/docs/upgrading.asciidoc, after:

[[upgrading]]
== Upgrading

This section gives general recommendations for upgrading {beats} shippers:

* <<upgrading-minor-versions>>
* <<upgrading-6-to-7>>
* <<troubleshooting-upgrade>>

If you're upgrading other products in the stack, also read the
{stack-ref}/index.html[Elastic Stack Installation and Upgrade Guide]. 

[[upgrading-minor-versions]]
=== Upgrade between minor versions

As a general rule, you can upgrade between minor versions (for example, 7.x to
7.y, where x < y) by simply installing the new release and restarting the Beat
process. {beats} typically maintain backwards compatibility for configuration
settings and exported fields. Please review the
<<release-notes,release notes>> for potential exceptions.

Upgrading between non-consecutive major versions (e.g. 5.x to 7.x) is not
supported.

[[upgrading-6-to-7]]
=== Upgrade from 6.x to 7.x

Before upgrading your {beats}, review the <<breaking-changes,breaking changes>>
and the <<release-notes>>.

If you're upgrading other products in the stack, also read the
{stack-ref}/index.html[Elastic Stack Installation and Upgrade Guide]. 

We recommend that you fully upgrade {es} and {kib} to version 7.0
before upgrading {beats}. If you're on {beats} 6.0 through 6.6,
upgrade the {stack} and {beats} to version 6.7 *before* proceeding with the
7.0 upgrade.

Upgrading between non-consecutive major versions (e.g. 5.x to 7.x) is not
supported.

IMPORTANT: Please read through all upgrade steps before proceeding. These steps
are required before running the software for the first time.

[[upgrading-to-6.7]]
==== Upgrade to {beats} 6.7 before upgrading to 7.0

The upgrade procedure assumes that you have {beats} 6.7 installed. If you're on
a previous 6.x version of {beats}, upgrade to version 6.7 first. If you're using
other products in the {stack}, upgrade {beats} as part of the
{stack-ref}/upgrading-elastic-stack.html[{stack} upgrade process].

Upgrading to 6.7 is required because the {es} index template was modified to
be compatible with {es} 7.0 (the `_type` setting changed from `doc` to `_doc`).

After upgrading to 6.7, use the {ref}/indices-templates.html#getting[Index
Template API] to verify that the 6.7 index template has been created in {ES}.

:asset: the index template
:option: template

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

NOTE: In previous versions, we advised users to manually force loading of the
index template. This is no longer recommended. Use the `setup` command instead.

*Metricbeat and Filebeat users:* If you use {beats} central management,
make sure you migrate the {beats} central management index to 6.7 before you
upgrade to 7.0. Although central management is not a GA-level feature in 7.0,
we've provided a migration tool to help you migrate your configurations from
version 6.6 to 6.7 or later. For more information, see the
https://www.elastic.co/blog/beats-6-7-0-released[Beats 6.7.0 release blog].

==== Upgrade {beats} binaries to 7.0

Before upgrading:

. Stop the existing {beats} process by using the appropriate command for your
system.
. Back up the `data` and `config` directories by copying them to another
location.
+
TIP: The location of these directories depends on the installation method. To
see the current paths, start the Beat from a terminal, and the `data` and
`config` paths are printed at startup.

To upgrade using a Debian or RPM package:

* Use `rpm` or `dpkg` to install the new package. All files are installed in the
appropriate location for the operating system and {beats} config files are not
overwritten.

To upgrade using a zip or compressed tarball:

. Extract the zip or tarball to a _new_ directory. This is critical if you
are not using external `config` and `data` directories.
. Set the following options in the {beats} configuration file:
+
--
* Set `path.config` to point to your external `config` directory. If you are
not using an external `config` directory, copy your old configuration over to
the new installation.
* Set `path.data` to point to your external data directory. If you are not using
an external `data` directory, copy your old data directory over to the new
installation. 
* Set `path.logs` to point to the location where you want to store your logs. If
you do not specify this setting, logs are stored in the directory you extracted
the archive to.
--

Complete the upgrade tasks described in the following sections *before*
restarting the {beats} process.

[[migrate-config-files]]
==== Migrate configuration files

{beats} 7.0 comes with several backwards incompatible configuration changes.
Before upgrading, review the <<breaking-changes-7.0>> document. Also review
the full list of breaking changes in the <<release-notes>> for 7.0.

Where possible, we kept the old configuration options working, but deprecated
them. However, deprecation was not always possible, so if you use any of the
settings described under breaking changes, make sure you understand the
alternatives that we provide.

[[enable-ecs-compatibility]]
==== Enable the compatibility layer for Elastic Common Schema (ECS) fields

Starting with 7.0, the fields exported by {beats} conform to the
{ecs-ref}/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]. Many of the exported fields
have been renamed. See {beats-ref}/breaking-changes-7.0.html[Breaking
changes in 7.0] for the full list of changed names.

To help you transition to the new fields, we provide a compatibility layer in
the form of ECS-compatible field aliases. To use the aliases, set the following
option in the Beat's configuration file *before* you upgrade the {es} index
template to 7.0.

[source,yaml]
----
migration.6_to_7.enabled: true
----

The field aliases let you use 6.x dashboards and visualizations with indices
created by {beats} 7.0 or later. The aliases do *not* work with saved searches
or with API calls that manipulate documents directly. 

Some fields also have type changes in 7.0 that affect the behavior of older
dashboards and visualizations. To clarify:

* *Some fields have type changes.* Your {kib} visualizations and aggregations 
will not work on these fields until the conflicts are resolved.

* *Some fields have name changes, but no type changes.* The field aliases
created by the compatibility layer ensure that visualizations and aggregations
on the old field names work on old and new data. 7.0 dashboards work
only on new field names (and therefore only on new data).

* *Some fields have both name and type changes.* Field aliases are created for
these fields, but your {kib} visualizations and aggregations will not work on
these fields until the conflicts are resolved. Some of your  {es} API queries
may continue to work, if the old and new types are compatible.

We strongly advise that you adjust your custom {kib} dashboards, machine
learning jobs, and other content to use the new ECS field names. To learn more
about migrating to ECS, see the
https://www.elastic.co/blog/migrating-to-elastic-common-schema-in-beats-environments[Migrating
to Elastic Common Schema (ECS) in Beats environments] blog post.

After removing all references to old fields, you should set
`migration.6_to_7.enabled: false` so that field aliases will not be created
during your next minor upgrade.

The aliases will be removed in 8.0.

TIP: Did you run the Beat or load the index template before reading this section?
That's OK. See the clean-up steps described under <<missing-fields>>.

[[upgrade-index-template]]
==== Upgrade the {es} index template

Index templates and the default index names are versioned. For example,
{metricbeat} {stack-version} typically creates indices like this:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat-{stack-version}-2019.04.02
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And the corresponding {es} index template is named +metricbeat-{stack-version}+.

This means that each version of the Beat creates a new index, and it's
guaranteed that the correct index template for that version is applied. With
these changes in place, you generally don't have to do anything to upgrade the
index template when you move to a new version. Just load the new version of the
index template *before* ingesting any data into {es}. 

If you plan to run {beats} 6.7 and 7.0 in parallel, make sure you
<<enable-ecs-compatibility,enable the compatibility layer>> *before* you load
the index template. 

:asset: the index template
:option: template

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

TIP: When loading the index template, you can also specify
`-E setup.template.settings.index.number_of_shards=n` where `n` is the number of
shards to use for the index. 

[[non-es-outputs]]
==== How to use versioned index templates when the output is not {es}

If you've configured {beats} to send events to a different output, such as {ls},
make sure you use versioned index templates and indices. Otherwise, after you
upgrade, there will be field conflicts.

To use versioned index templates and indices with {ls}, configure your
{ls} pipeline to use the metadata from {beats} to set the index, and allow
Beats to manage the index template:

[source,json]
----
    manage_template => false
    index => "%{[@metadata][beat]}-%{[@metadata][version]}-%{+YYYY.MM.dd}" 
----

When you use this configuration, the index name is set to match the index
pattern in the {beats} index template. See the 
{logstash-ref}/plugins-inputs-beats.html[{beats} input plugin] documentation
for more information.

For other non-{es} outputs, use the metadata from {beats} to set the index, and
allow {beats} to load and manage the index template, as described under
<<upgrade-index-template>>.

IMPORTANT: The index name must match the index pattern in the {beats} index
template. For example, if {ls} sends events to an index called
+metricbeat-7-2019.04.02+, but the index template expects indices to match
+metricbeat-{stack-version}-*+, you may encounter mapping errors and be unable
to index {beats} events.

==== Upgrade dashboards

We recommend that you import the 7.0 {kib} dashboards after upgrading
{kib} and {beats}. This way, you can take advantage of the new dashboards
created for the 7.0 release.

If you've <<enable-ecs-compatibility,enabled the compatibility layer>> before
loading the index template and dashboards, 6.x dashboards can co-exist with
7.0 dashboards and will continue working after the upgrade.

:asset: 7.0 dashboards
:option: dashboards

include::upgrade-setup-commands.asciidoc[]

[[migrate-filebeat-registry]]
==== Migrate {filebeat} registry to use new format

Starting with version 7.0, {filebeat} stores the registry in a directory
structure. If Filebeat finds an old registry file at the path set by
`filebeat.registry.path`, it will automatically migrate the registry file to the
new format. If the registry file is at a different location, set
`filebeat.registry.migrate_file` to point to the file.

The registry changes also require you to rename the following configuration
settings:

[options="header"]
|====
|Old config name | New config name
|`filebeat.registry_file`    | `filebeat.registry.path`.
|`filebeat.registry_file_permissions` | `filebeat.registry.file_permissions`
|`filebeat.registry_flush` | `filebeat.registry.flush`
|====

Before proceeding with the upgrade, make sure you back up the registry file.

[role="xpack"]
[[ilm-on]]
==== Check privileges for index lifecycle management (on by default in 7.0)

Starting with {beats} 7.0, index lifecycle management is on by default when
sending data to {beats} clusters that support it. Make sure {beats} users have
the privileges needed to use index lifecycle management, or disable index
lifecycle management. 

For help troubleshooting authorization issues, see <<user-unauthorized>>.

If you want to disable index lifecycle management, set
`setup.ilm.enabled: false` in the {beats} configuration file.

[[troubleshooting-upgrade]]
=== Troubleshooting {beats} upgrade issues

This section describes common problems you might encounter when upgrading to
{beats} 7.x.

You can avoid some of these problems by reading <<upgrading-6-to-7>> before
upgrading {beats}.

[[missing-fields]]
==== Missing fields or too many fields in the index

You may have run the Beat before loading the required index template. To clean
up and start again:

. Delete the index that was created when you ran the Beat. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
DELETE metricbeat-{stack-version}-2019.04.02*
----
+
WARNING: Be careful when using wildcards to delete indices. Make sure the
pattern matches only the indices you want to delete. The example shown here
deletes all data indexed into the metricbeat-{stack-version} indices on
2019.04.02.

. If you want the index to work with 6.x dashboards, turn on the compatibility
layer. See <<enable-ecs-compatibility>>.

. Delete the index template that was loaded earlier. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
DELETE /_template/metricbeat-{stack-version}
----
+
Because the index template was loaded without the compatibility layer enabled,
the required aliases were not created. 

. Load the correct index template. See <<upgrade-index-template>>.

. Restart {beats}.

[[user-unauthorized]]
==== User is not authorized

Because index lifecycle management is on by default in 7.0, you might encounter
new errors related to user authorization when you run version 7.0 against an
{es} cluster that supports index lifecycle management.

===== `[cluster:monitor/main] is unauthorized for user`

*Problem*: The {beats} user is unable to send monitoring information.

*Solution:* Grant the `monitor` cluster privilege.

===== `[cluster:admin/ilm/put] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* The {beats} user is not authorized to load ILM policies. 

*Solution:* Grant the `manage_ilm` cluster privilege.

===== `[indices:admin/template/put] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* Automatic index template loading is required when ILM is enabled, but the user
is not authorized to manage index templates.

*Solution:* Grant the `manage_index_templates` cluster privilege.

===== `[indices:admin/aliases] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:* The {beats} user is unable to set up aliases needed by the compatibility
layer.

*Solution:* Grant the `manage` privilege on the {beats} indices.

===== `[indices:data/write/bulk] is unauthorized for user` 

*Problem:*  The {beats} user is unable to write events to {es}.

*Solution:* Grant the `index` privilege on the {beats} indices.

[[old-dashboards-failing]]
==== 6.x dashboards not showing data from 7.0 shippers

You might have run the Beat without turning on the compatibility layer. See
<<enable-ecs-compatibility>> then clean up your environment as described
under <<missing-fields>>.

[[logstash-data-missing]]
==== Data parsed by {ls} not appearing in 7.0 dashboards

You might be writing to an index that doesn't match the index pattern used
by {beats}. See <<non-es-outputs>>.


[[dashboard-shard-failed]]
==== "shard failed" error when viewing {beats} dashboards in {kib}

After upgrading to {es} 7.0, any indices created by Beats 6.6 or older will not
work in {kib} dashboards until the `index.query.default_field` setting is added
to each index. Indices created in Beats 6.7 or later are unaffected.

*Background:* Starting in {es} 7.0, some query types, such as Simple Query
String, have a limit to the number of fields they will query against. Because
Beats indices often contain more fields than this cap, the
`index.query.default_field` index setting is used to inform {es} which fields to
use by default when no field is specified for a query.

To add the setting to the index, you can use the 7.0
{kibana-ref}/upgrade-assistant.html[Upgrade Assistant], or add the setting
manually.

To add the setting manually, first identify the list of fields that you want to
set as the default search fields, then specify the list of fields in the
`default_field` setting.

For example, here's a snippet that shows how to add default search fields to a
Metricbeat 6.6 index. This example is truncated. Full examples for Metricbeat
and Filebeat are available in
https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/master/libbeat/docs/troubleshooting/default_field.md[this file]. 

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /metricbeat-6.6.2-2019.04.09/_settings
{
  "index": {
    "query": {
      "default_field": [
        "aerospike.namespace.name",
        "aerospike.namespace.node.host",
        "aerospike.namespace.node.name",
        "apache.status.hostname",
        "beat.hostname",
        "beat.name",
        "beat.timezone",
        "beat.version",
        ...
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
