README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/8.0/badge/icon)](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/8.0/)
[![GoReportCard](http://goreportcard.com/badge/elastic/beats)](http://goreportcard.com/report/elastic/beats)
[![Reviewed by Hound](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reviewed_by-Hound-8E64B0.svg)](https://houndci.com)

# Beats - The Lightweight Shippers of the Elastic Stack

The [Beats](https://www.elastic.co/beats) are lightweight data
shippers, written in Go, that you install on your servers to capture all sorts
of operational data (think of logs, metrics, or network packet data). The Beats
send the operational data to Elasticsearch, either directly or via Logstash, so
it can be visualized with Kibana.

By "lightweight", we mean that Beats have a small installation footprint, use
limited system resources, and have no runtime dependencies.

This repository contains
[libbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/libbeat), our Go
framework for creating Beats, and all the officially supported Beats:

Beat  | Description
--- | ---
[Auditbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/auditbeat) | Collect your Linux audit framework data and monitor the integrity of your files.
[Filebeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/filebeat) | Tails and ships log files
[Functionbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/x-pack/functionbeat) | Read and ships events from serverless infrastructure.
[Heartbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/heartbeat) | Ping remote services for availability
[Metricbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/metricbeat) | Fetches sets of metrics from the operating system and services
[Packetbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/packetbeat) | Monitors the network and applications by sniffing packets
[Winlogbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/winlogbeat) | Fetches and ships Windows Event logs
[Osquerybeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/x-pack/osquerybeat) | Runs Osquery and manages interraction with it.

In addition to the above Beats, which are officially supported by
[Elastic](https://elastic.co), the community has created a set of other Beats
that make use of libbeat but live outside of this Github repository. We maintain
a list of community Beats
[here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/8.0/community-beats.html).

## Documentation and Getting Started

You can find the documentation and getting started guides for each of the Beats
on the [elastic.co site](https://www.elastic.co/guide/):

* [Beats platform](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/index.html)
* [Auditbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/auditbeat/current/index.html)
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/index.html)
* [Functionbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/functionbeat/current/index.html)
* [Heartbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/index.html)
* [Metricbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/index.html)
* [Packetbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/packetbeat/current/index.html)
* [Winlogbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/winlogbeat/current/index.html)

## Documentation and Getting Started information for the Elastic Agent

You can find the documentation and getting started guides for the Elastic Agent
on the [elastic.co site](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elastic-agent)

## Getting Help

If you need help or hit an issue, please start by opening a topic on our
[discuss forums](https://discuss.elastic.co/c/beats). Please note that we
reserve GitHub tickets for confirmed bugs and enhancement requests.

## Downloads

You can download pre-compiled Beats binaries, as well as packages for the
supported platforms, from [this page](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats).

## Contributing

We'd love working with you! You can help make the Beats better in many ways:
report issues, help us reproduce issues, fix bugs, add functionality, or even
create your own Beat.

Please start by reading our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

If you are creating a new Beat, you don't need to submit the code to this
repository. You can simply start working in a new repository and make use of the
libbeat packages, by following our [developer
guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/new-beat.html).
After you have a working prototype, open a pull request to add your Beat to the
list of [community
Beats](https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/8.0/libbeat/docs/communitybeats.asciidoc).

## Building Beats from the Source

See our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for information about setting up
your dev environment to build Beats from the source.

## Snapshots

For testing purposes, we generate snapshot builds that you can find [here](https://artifacts-api.elastic.co/v1/search/8.0-SNAPSHOT/). Please be aware that these are built on top of master and are not meant for production.

## CI

### PR Comments

It is possible to trigger some jobs by putting a comment on a GitHub PR.
(This service is only available for users affiliated with Elastic and not for open-source contributors.)

* [beats][]
  * `jenkins run the tests please` or `jenkins run tests` or `/test` will kick off a default build.
  * `/test macos` will kick off a default build with also the `macos` stages.
  * `/test <beat-name>` will kick off the default build for the given PR in addition to the `<beat-name>` build itself.
  * `/test <beat-name> for macos` will kick off a default build with also the `macos` stage for the `<beat-name>`.
* [apm-beats-update][]
  * `/run apm-beats-update`
* [apm-beats-packaging][]
  * `/package` or `/packaging` will kick of a build to generate the packages for beats.
* [apm-beats-tester][]
  * `/beats-tester` will kick of a build to validate the generated packages.

### PR Labels

It's possible to configure the build on a GitHub PR by labelling the PR with the below labels

* `<beat-name>` to force the following builds to run the stages for the `<beat-name>`
* `macOS` to force the following builds to run the `macos` stages.

[beats]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/
[apm-beats-update]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/apm-beats-update/
[apm-beats-packaging]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/packaging/
[apm-beats-tester]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats-tester/

Commit message:

use main default branch (#29710)
(cherry picked from commit 237937085a5a7337ba06f1268cfc55cd4b869e31)

# Conflicts:
#	.ci/jobs/apm-beats-update.yml
#	.ci/jobs/beats-tester.yml
#	.ci/jobs/beats.yml
#	.ci/jobs/packaging.yml
#	.ci/schedule-daily.groovy
#	.ci/schedule-weekly.groovy
#	.mergify.yml
#	README.md
#	filebeat/_meta/test/docs/testing.md
#	x-pack/elastic-agent/README.md

README.md, after:

<<<<<<< HEAD
[![Build Status](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/8.0/badge/icon)](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/8.0/)
=======
[![Build Status](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/main/badge/icon)](https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/job/main/)
>>>>>>> 237937085 (use main default branch (#29710))
[![GoReportCard](http://goreportcard.com/badge/elastic/beats)](http://goreportcard.com/report/elastic/beats)
[![Reviewed by Hound](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reviewed_by-Hound-8E64B0.svg)](https://houndci.com)

# Beats - The Lightweight Shippers of the Elastic Stack

The [Beats](https://www.elastic.co/beats) are lightweight data
shippers, written in Go, that you install on your servers to capture all sorts
of operational data (think of logs, metrics, or network packet data). The Beats
send the operational data to Elasticsearch, either directly or via Logstash, so
it can be visualized with Kibana.

By "lightweight", we mean that Beats have a small installation footprint, use
limited system resources, and have no runtime dependencies.

This repository contains
<<<<<<< HEAD
[libbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/libbeat), our Go
=======
[libbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/libbeat), our Go
>>>>>>> 237937085 (use main default branch (#29710))
framework for creating Beats, and all the officially supported Beats:

Beat  | Description
--- | ---
<<<<<<< HEAD
[Auditbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/auditbeat) | Collect your Linux audit framework data and monitor the integrity of your files.
[Filebeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/filebeat) | Tails and ships log files
[Functionbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/x-pack/functionbeat) | Read and ships events from serverless infrastructure.
[Heartbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/heartbeat) | Ping remote services for availability
[Metricbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/metricbeat) | Fetches sets of metrics from the operating system and services
[Packetbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/packetbeat) | Monitors the network and applications by sniffing packets
[Winlogbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/winlogbeat) | Fetches and ships Windows Event logs
[Osquerybeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/8.0/x-pack/osquerybeat) | Runs Osquery and manages interraction with it.
=======
[Auditbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/auditbeat) | Collect your Linux audit framework data and monitor the integrity of your files.
[Filebeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/filebeat) | Tails and ships log files
[Functionbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/x-pack/functionbeat) | Read and ships events from serverless infrastructure.
[Heartbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/heartbeat) | Ping remote services for availability
[Metricbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/metricbeat) | Fetches sets of metrics from the operating system and services
[Packetbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/packetbeat) | Monitors the network and applications by sniffing packets
[Winlogbeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/winlogbeat) | Fetches and ships Windows Event logs
[Osquerybeat](https://github.com/elastic/beats/tree/main/x-pack/osquerybeat) | Runs Osquery and manages interraction with it.
>>>>>>> 237937085 (use main default branch (#29710))

In addition to the above Beats, which are officially supported by
[Elastic](https://elastic.co), the community has created a set of other Beats
that make use of libbeat but live outside of this Github repository. We maintain
a list of community Beats
[here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/8.0/community-beats.html).

## Documentation and Getting Started

You can find the documentation and getting started guides for each of the Beats
on the [elastic.co site](https://www.elastic.co/guide/):

* [Beats platform](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/index.html)
* [Auditbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/auditbeat/current/index.html)
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/index.html)
* [Functionbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/functionbeat/current/index.html)
* [Heartbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/index.html)
* [Metricbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/index.html)
* [Packetbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/packetbeat/current/index.html)
* [Winlogbeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/winlogbeat/current/index.html)

## Documentation and Getting Started information for the Elastic Agent

You can find the documentation and getting started guides for the Elastic Agent
on the [elastic.co site](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elastic-agent)

## Getting Help

If you need help or hit an issue, please start by opening a topic on our
[discuss forums](https://discuss.elastic.co/c/beats). Please note that we
reserve GitHub tickets for confirmed bugs and enhancement requests.

## Downloads

You can download pre-compiled Beats binaries, as well as packages for the
supported platforms, from [this page](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats).

## Contributing

We'd love working with you! You can help make the Beats better in many ways:
report issues, help us reproduce issues, fix bugs, add functionality, or even
create your own Beat.

Please start by reading our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

If you are creating a new Beat, you don't need to submit the code to this
repository. You can simply start working in a new repository and make use of the
libbeat packages, by following our [developer
guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/new-beat.html).
After you have a working prototype, open a pull request to add your Beat to the
list of [community
Beats](https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/8.0/libbeat/docs/communitybeats.asciidoc).

## Building Beats from the Source

See our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for information about setting up
your dev environment to build Beats from the source.

## Snapshots

For testing purposes, we generate snapshot builds that you can find [here](https://artifacts-api.elastic.co/v1/search/8.0-SNAPSHOT/). Please be aware that these are built on top of main and are not meant for production.

## CI

### PR Comments

It is possible to trigger some jobs by putting a comment on a GitHub PR.
(This service is only available for users affiliated with Elastic and not for open-source contributors.)

* [beats][]
  * `jenkins run the tests please` or `jenkins run tests` or `/test` will kick off a default build.
  * `/test macos` will kick off a default build with also the `macos` stages.
  * `/test <beat-name>` will kick off the default build for the given PR in addition to the `<beat-name>` build itself.
  * `/test <beat-name> for macos` will kick off a default build with also the `macos` stage for the `<beat-name>`.
* [apm-beats-update][]
  * `/run apm-beats-update`
* [apm-beats-packaging][]
  * `/package` or `/packaging` will kick of a build to generate the packages for beats.
* [apm-beats-tester][]
  * `/beats-tester` will kick of a build to validate the generated packages.

### PR Labels

It's possible to configure the build on a GitHub PR by labelling the PR with the below labels

* `<beat-name>` to force the following builds to run the stages for the `<beat-name>`
* `macOS` to force the following builds to run the `macos` stages.

[beats]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats/
[apm-beats-update]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/apm-beats-update/
[apm-beats-packaging]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/packaging/
[apm-beats-tester]: https://beats-ci.elastic.co/job/Beats/job/beats-tester/
