x-pack/filebeat/module/aws/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: aws
:has-dashboards: true

== AWS module

beta[]

This is a module for aws logs. It uses filebeat s3 input to get log files from
AWS S3 buckets with SQS notification. This module supports reading s3 server
access logs with `s3access` fileset, ELB access logs with `elb` fileset and VPC
flow logs with `vpc` fileset.

Access logs contain detailed information about the requests made to these
services. VPC flow logs captures information about the IP traffic going to and
from network interfaces in AWS VPC.

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with several predefined dashboards. For example, here is the
dashboard for `s3access` fileset:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-s3access-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Module configuration

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  s3access:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  elb:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  vpcflow:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws
----

*`var.queue_url`*::

AWS SQS queue url.

*`var.credential_profile_name`*::

AWS credential profile name.

Commit message:

[Filebeat] Add AWS CloudTrail Support (#15227)
- maps all fields in CloudTrail events
- requestParameters, responseElements, additionalEventData
  & serviceEventDetails are string representations
- add event.original
- add event.type
- add event.kind
- add event.outcome
- run geoip processor
- run agent processor
- populated related.user array when possible
- uses s3input
- CloudTrail must write to S3 bucket, and send all Create Events
  to an SQS queue we listen to

Fixes #14657

(cherry picked from commit da7a69758d66c9873b197e7e96be629c236b6150)

x-pack/filebeat/module/aws/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: aws
:has-dashboards: true

== AWS module

beta[]

This is a module for aws logs. It uses filebeat s3 input to get log files from
AWS S3 buckets with SQS notification. This module supports reading s3 server
access logs with `s3access` fileset, ELB access logs with `elb` fileset, VPC
flow logs with `vpc` fileset, and CloudTrail logs with `cloudtrail` fileset.

Access logs contain detailed information about the requests made to these
services. VPC flow logs captures information about the IP traffic going to and
from network interfaces in AWS VPC.  CloudTrail logs contain events
that represent actions taken by a user, role or AWS service.

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with several predefined dashboards. For example, here is the
dashboard for `s3access` fileset:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-s3access-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Module configuration

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  s3access:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  elb:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  vpcflow:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
      #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  cloudtrail:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Profile name for aws credential
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws
----

*`var.queue_url`*::

AWS SQS queue url.

*`var.credential_profile_name`*::

AWS credential profile name.

=== CloudTrail fileset

The `cloudtrail` fileset does not read the CloudTrail Digest files
that are delivered to the S3 bucket when Log File Integrity is turned
on, it only reads the CloudTrail logs.
