x-pack/elastic-agent/docs/fleet-server-bootstrap.asciidoc, before:

[[fleet-server-bootstrap]]
== Fleet Server Bootstrap

Elastic Agent with Fleet Server has a bootstrap process that it uses to get
Fleet Server up and running under Elastic Agent.

Elastic Agent will bootstrap a Fleet Server when the `--fleet-server-es`
command-line option is provided to an `install` or `enroll` command. In this mode
Elastic Agent will only communicate with its local Fleet Server and expose
the Fleet Server over the `:8221` port.

The `:8221` port is reserved for communication between the Elastic Agent and the
Fleet Server on the host. It is bound to the localhost of the machine/container
and cannot be accessed remotely. This ensures that the local Elastic Agent has
priority in check-ins with the Fleet Server. The `:8220` port is bound on
`0.0.0.0` to allow remote connections from external Elastic Agents that wish to
enroll and communicate.

[float]
[[fleet-server-operating-modes]]
=== Operating Modes

Elastic Agent can bootstrap the Fleet Server into three different modes. The mode
determines how Fleet Server exposes itself over the `:8220` port, but does not change
any other behaviour.

==== Self-signed Certificate

With the standard `--fleet-server-es` and `--fleet-server-service-token` options the
Elastic Agent will generate a CA and certificate for communication with
the Fleet Server that it starts. These certificates are generated
by Elastic Agent and passed to the Fleet Server, with Elastic Agent using the host's
hostname in the communication URL for valid TLS verification.

==== HTTP Only

Using the `--insecure` and `--fleet-server-insecure-http` will bootstrap the Fleet Server
without any certificates, it will be bound to `localhost:8220` and Elastic Agent will
communicate in clear-text.

==== Custom Certificates (aka. Production)

When deploying Elastic Agent in a production environment using enterprise generated
certificates will ensure that Elastic Agent running locally and remote Elastic Agent
will be able to connect over a verified TLS based connection. Certificates are specified
with `--fleet-server-cert`, `--fleet-server-cert-ca`, and `--certificate-authorities`.

[float]
[[fleet-server-bootstrap-process]]
=== How Does It Bootstrap

Bootstrapping is ran during the `enroll` command. The `install` command
or the `container` command (used by Docker container) will call the `enroll`
command to perform the bootstrapping process.

==== Install Command

When the `install` command is executed it places the Elastic Agent in the correct file
paths based on the operating system then starts the Elastic Agent service. The
`enroll` command is then executed by the `install` command.

==== Container Command

When the `container` command is executed it first copies the `data/downloads` directory
into a state path (`STATE_PATH`) then it executes the `enroll` command.

==== Enroll Command

This is where all the actual work of bootstrapping is performed.

. A new `fleet.yml` is written with `fleet.server.*` options set along with
`fleet.server.bootstrap: true`.
. `enroll` command then either triggers a restart or spawns an Elastic Agent daemon.
.. First it checks if there is a running Elastic Agent daemon using the control socket.
In the case that there is a running Elastic Agent daemon it will trigger a restart through
the control socket.
.. In the case that there is no running Elastic Agent daemon a subprocess with the `run`
command will be started. The `enroll` command will then wait for the process to be up and
running by monitoring it with the control socket.
. The `status` command will then be polled through the control socket waiting for the
`fleet-server` application to be reported as `degraded`. `degraded` is reported because
the `fleet-server` is started without an `agent.id`.
. Once `fleet-server` is degraded the `enroll` command then uses localhost to communicate
with the running `fleet-server` to complete enrollment. This is the same enrollment used
by the Elastic Agent to a remote Fleet Server.
. A new `fleet.yml` is written with the enrollment information including its `agent.id` and
its API key to use for communication. The new `fleet.yml` still includes the `fleet.server.*`,
but this time the `fleet.server.bootstrap: false` is set.
. `enroll` command then either restarts the running Elatic Agent daemon if one was running
from Step 2, or it stops the spawned `run` subprocess and returns.

Commit message:

added configurable default policy id option

x-pack/elastic-agent/docs/fleet-server-bootstrap.asciidoc, after:

[[fleet-server-bootstrap]]
== Fleet Server Bootstrap

Elastic Agent with Fleet Server has a bootstrap process that it uses to get
Fleet Server up and running under Elastic Agent.

Elastic Agent will bootstrap a Fleet Server when the `--fleet-server-es`
command-line option is provided to an `install` or `enroll` command. In this mode
Elastic Agent will only communicate with its local Fleet Server and expose
the Fleet Server over the `:8221` port.

The `:8221` port is reserved for communication between the Elastic Agent and the
Fleet Server on the host. It is bound to the localhost of the machine/container
and cannot be accessed remotely. This ensures that the local Elastic Agent has
priority in check-ins with the Fleet Server. The `:8220` port is bound on
`0.0.0.0` to allow remote connections from external Elastic Agents that wish to
enroll and communicate.

[float]
[[fleet-server-operating-modes]]
=== Operating Modes

Elastic Agent can bootstrap the Fleet Server into three different modes. The mode
determines how Fleet Server exposes itself over the `:8220` port, but does not change
any other behaviour.

==== Self-signed Certificate

With the standard `--fleet-server-es` and `--fleet-server-service-token` options the
Elastic Agent will generate a CA and certificate for communication with
the Fleet Server that it starts. These certificates are generated
by Elastic Agent and passed to the Fleet Server, with Elastic Agent using the host's
hostname in the communication URL for valid TLS verification.

==== HTTP Only

Using the `--insecure` and `--fleet-server-insecure-http` will bootstrap the Fleet Server
without any certificates, it will be bound to `localhost:8220` and Elastic Agent will
communicate in clear-text.

==== Custom Certificates (aka. Production)

When deploying Elastic Agent in a production environment using enterprise generated
certificates will ensure that Elastic Agent running locally and remote Elastic Agent
will be able to connect over a verified TLS based connection. Certificates are specified
with `--fleet-server-cert`, `--fleet-server-cert-ca`, and `--certificate-authorities`.

[float]
[[fleet-server-bootstrap-process]]
=== How Does It Bootstrap

Bootstrapping is ran during the `enroll` command. The `install` command
or the `container` command (used by Docker container) will call the `enroll`
command to perform the bootstrapping process.

==== Install Command

When the `install` command is executed it places the Elastic Agent in the correct file
paths based on the operating system then starts the Elastic Agent service. The
`enroll` command is then executed by the `install` command.

==== Container Command

When the `container` command is executed it first copies the `data/downloads` directory
into a state path (`STATE_PATH`) then it executes the `enroll` command.

When using the `container` command, a policy ID for the agent should be supplied via the
`FLEET_SERVER_POLICY` environment variable. If this value is omitted, the agent will attempt
to use the deafult policy ID, which can be configured via `DEFALUT_FLEET_SERVER_POLICY`

==== Enroll Command

This is where all the actual work of bootstrapping is performed.

. A new `fleet.yml` is written with `fleet.server.*` options set along with
`fleet.server.bootstrap: true`.
. `enroll` command then either triggers a restart or spawns an Elastic Agent daemon.
.. First it checks if there is a running Elastic Agent daemon using the control socket.
In the case that there is a running Elastic Agent daemon it will trigger a restart through
the control socket.
.. In the case that there is no running Elastic Agent daemon a subprocess with the `run`
command will be started. The `enroll` command will then wait for the process to be up and
running by monitoring it with the control socket.
. The `status` command will then be polled through the control socket waiting for the
`fleet-server` application to be reported as `degraded`. `degraded` is reported because
the `fleet-server` is started without an `agent.id`.
. Once `fleet-server` is degraded the `enroll` command then uses localhost to communicate
with the running `fleet-server` to complete enrollment. This is the same enrollment used
by the Elastic Agent to a remote Fleet Server.
. A new `fleet.yml` is written with the enrollment information including its `agent.id` and
its API key to use for communication. The new `fleet.yml` still includes the `fleet.server.*`,
but this time the `fleet.server.bootstrap: false` is set.
. `enroll` command then either restarts the running Elatic Agent daemon if one was running
from Step 2, or it stops the spawned `run` subprocess and returns.
