metricbeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-aws]]
[role="xpack"]
== aws module

:libbeat-xpack-dir: ../../../x-pack/libbeat

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from AWS CloudWatch using
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[GetMetricData API] for AWS services.
Note: extra AWS charges on GetMetricData API requests will be generated by this module.

The default metricsets are `ec2`, `sqs`, `s3_request`, `s3_daily_storage`, `cloudwatch` and `rds`.

[float]
== Module-specific configuration notes

The `aws` module requires AWS credentials configuration in order to make AWS API calls.
Users can either use `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and/or
`AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`, or use shared AWS credentials file.
Please see <<aws-credentials-config,AWS credentials options>> for more details.

This module also accepts optional configuration `regions` to specify which
AWS regions to query metrics from. If the `regions` parameter is not set in the
config file, then by default, the `aws` module will query metrics from all available
AWS regions.

The aws module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-overview.png[]

[float]
== Metricsets

Currently, we have `ec2`, `sqs`, `s3_request`, `s3_daily_storage`, `cloudwatch`, `billing`,`ebs`, `elb`, `rds`, `sns`, `sqs` and `usage` metricset in `aws` module.
Collecting `tags` for `ec2`, `cloudwatch`, `ebs` and `elb` metricset is supported.

* *tags.*: Tag key value pairs from aws resources. A tag is a label that user assigns to an AWS resource.

[float]
=== `ec2`
By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS CloudWatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`. For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

The ec2 metricset comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-ec2-overview.png[]

[float]
=== `sqs`
CloudWatch metrics for Amazon SQS queues are automatically collected and pushed to CloudWatch every 5 minutes,
the `period` for `sqs` metricset is recommended to be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.

[float]
=== `s3_daily_storage`
Daily storage metrics for S3 buckets are reported once per day with no additional cost. Since they are daily metrics,
`period` for `s3_daily_storage` metricset is recommended to be `86400s` or multiples of `86400s`.

[float]
=== `s3_request`
Request metrics are available
at 1-minute intervals with additional charges. The s3_request metricset will give more
granular data to track S3 bucket usage. The `period` for `s3_request` metricset can be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`.
But because of the extra charges for querying these metrics, the `period` is recommended to set to `86400s`. The user can
always adjust this to the granularity they want. Request metrics are not enabled by default for S3 buckets. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/configure-metrics.html[How to
Configure Request Metrics for S3] for instructions on how to enable request metrics for
each S3 bucket.

[float]
=== `cloudwatch`
This metricset gives users the freedom to query metrics from AWS CloudWatch with
any given namespaces or specific instance with a given period.
Please see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html[AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics]
for a list of AWS services that publish metrics to CloudWatch.

[float]
=== `rds`
`period` for `rds` metricset is recommended to be `60s` or multiples of `60s` because Amazon RDS sends metrics and
dimensions to Amazon CloudWatch every minute.

[float]
== AWS API requests count per metricset
This session is to document what are the AWS API called made by each metricset
in `aws` module. This will be useful for users to estimate costs for using `aws`
module.

Note: some AWS APIs need pagination like ListMetrics and GetMetricData. Count
value is depends on the number of results.

ListMetrics max page size: 500, based on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_ListMetrics.html[AWS API ListMetrics]

GetMetricData max page size: 100, based on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[AWS API GetMetricData]

[float]
=== `cloudwatch`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per namespace per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per namespace per collection period
|===
`billing`, `ebs`, `elb`, `sns` and `usage` are the same as `cloudwatch` metricset.

[float]
=== `ec2`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeInstances | 1 | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `rds`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| RDS DescribeDBInstances | 1 | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `sqs`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `s3_daily_storage` and `s3_request`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[id="aws-credentials-config"]
include::{libbeat-xpack-dir}/docs/aws-credentials-config.asciidoc[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The aws module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - ec2
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - sqs
  regions:
    - us-west-1
- module: aws
  period: 86400s
  metricsets:
    - s3_request
    - s3_daily_storage
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID:""}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY:""}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN:""}'
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - cloudwatch
  metrics:
    - namespace: AWS/EC2
      name: ["CPUUtilization"]
      dimensions:
        - name: InstanceId
          value: i-0686946e22cf9494a
    - namespace: AWS/EBS
    - namespace: AWS/ELB
      tags.resource_type_filter: elasticloadbalancing
- module: aws
  period: 60s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - rds
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-billing,billing>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-cloudwatch,cloudwatch>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-dynamodb,dynamodb>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ebs,ebs>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ec2,ec2>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-elb,elb>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-rds,rds>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-s3_daily_storage,s3_daily_storage>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-s3_request,s3_request>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-sns,sns>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-sqs,sqs>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-usage,usage>>

include::aws/billing.asciidoc[]

include::aws/cloudwatch.asciidoc[]

include::aws/dynamodb.asciidoc[]

include::aws/ebs.asciidoc[]

include::aws/ec2.asciidoc[]

include::aws/elb.asciidoc[]

include::aws/rds.asciidoc[]

include::aws/s3_daily_storage.asciidoc[]

include::aws/s3_request.asciidoc[]

include::aws/sns.asciidoc[]

include::aws/sqs.asciidoc[]

include::aws/usage.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[Metricbeat] Add lambda metricset in aws module (#15260)
* Add lambda metricset

(cherry picked from commit 9c1e3a68039395b22d456087be3b3a91ec223a4c)

metricbeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-aws]]
[role="xpack"]
== aws module

:libbeat-xpack-dir: ../../../x-pack/libbeat

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from AWS CloudWatch using
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[GetMetricData API] for AWS services.
Note: extra AWS charges on GetMetricData API requests will be generated by this module.

All metrics are enabled by default.

[float]
== Module-specific configuration notes

The `aws` module requires AWS credentials configuration in order to make AWS API calls.
Users can either use `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and/or
`AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`, or use shared AWS credentials file.
Please see <<aws-credentials-config,AWS credentials options>> for more details.

This module also accepts optional configuration `regions` to specify which
AWS regions to query metrics from. If the `regions` parameter is not set in the
config file, then by default, the `aws` module will query metrics from all available
AWS regions.

The aws module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-overview.png[]

[float]
== Metricsets

Currently, we have `billing`, `cloudwatch`, `dynamodb`, `ebs`, `ec2`, `elb`,
`lambda`, `rds`, `s3_daily_storage`, `s3_request`, `sns`, `sqs` and `usage`
metricset in `aws` module.

Collecting `tags` for `ec2`, `cloudwatch`, and metricset created based on
`cloudwatch` using light module is supported.

* *tags.*: Tag key value pairs from aws resources. A tag is a label that user assigns to an AWS resource.

[float]
=== `ec2`
By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS CloudWatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`. For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

The ec2 metricset comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-ec2-overview.png[]

[float]
=== `sqs`
CloudWatch metrics for Amazon SQS queues are automatically collected and pushed to CloudWatch every 5 minutes,
the `period` for `sqs` metricset is recommended to be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.

[float]
=== `s3_daily_storage`
Daily storage metrics for S3 buckets are reported once per day with no additional cost. Since they are daily metrics,
`period` for `s3_daily_storage` metricset is recommended to be `86400s` or multiples of `86400s`.

[float]
=== `s3_request`
Request metrics are available
at 1-minute intervals with additional charges. The s3_request metricset will give more
granular data to track S3 bucket usage. The `period` for `s3_request` metricset can be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`.
But because of the extra charges for querying these metrics, the `period` is recommended to set to `86400s`. The user can
always adjust this to the granularity they want. Request metrics are not enabled by default for S3 buckets. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/configure-metrics.html[How to
Configure Request Metrics for S3] for instructions on how to enable request metrics for
each S3 bucket.

[float]
=== `cloudwatch`
This metricset gives users the freedom to query metrics from AWS CloudWatch with
any given namespaces or specific instance with a given period.
Please see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html[AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics]
for a list of AWS services that publish metrics to CloudWatch.

[float]
=== `rds`
`period` for `rds` metricset is recommended to be `60s` or multiples of `60s` because Amazon RDS sends metrics and
dimensions to Amazon CloudWatch every minute.

[float]
== AWS API requests count per metricset
This session is to document what are the AWS API called made by each metricset
in `aws` module. This will be useful for users to estimate costs for using `aws`
module.

Note: some AWS APIs need pagination like ListMetrics and GetMetricData. Count
value is depends on the number of results.

ListMetrics max page size: 500, based on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_ListMetrics.html[AWS API ListMetrics]

GetMetricData max page size: 100, based on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[AWS API GetMetricData]

[float]
=== `cloudwatch`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per namespace per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per namespace per collection period
|===
`billing`, `ebs`, `elb`, `sns`, `usage` and `lambda` are the same as `cloudwatch` metricset.

[float]
=== `ec2`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeInstances | 1 | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `rds`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| RDS DescribeDBInstances | 1 | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `sqs`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[float]
=== `s3_daily_storage` and `s3_request`
|===
| AWS API Name | AWS API Count | Frequency
| IAM ListAccountAliases | 1 | Once on startup
| STS GetCallerIdentity | 1 | Once on startup
| EC2 DescribeRegions| 1 | Once on startup
| CloudWatch ListMetrics | Total number of results / ListMetrics max page size | Per region per collection period
| CloudWatch GetMetricData | Total number of results / GetMetricData max page size | Per region per collection period
|===

[id="aws-credentials-config"]
include::{libbeat-xpack-dir}/docs/aws-credentials-config.asciidoc[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The aws module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - ec2
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - sqs
  regions:
    - us-west-1
- module: aws
  period: 86400s
  metricsets:
    - s3_request
    - s3_daily_storage
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID:""}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY:""}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN:""}'
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - cloudwatch
  metrics:
    - namespace: AWS/EC2
      name: ["CPUUtilization"]
      dimensions:
        - name: InstanceId
          value: i-0686946e22cf9494a
    - namespace: AWS/EBS
    - namespace: AWS/ELB
      tags.resource_type_filter: elasticloadbalancing
- module: aws
  period: 60s
  credential_profile_name: test-mb
  metricsets:
    - rds
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-billing,billing>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-cloudwatch,cloudwatch>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-dynamodb,dynamodb>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ebs,ebs>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ec2,ec2>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-elb,elb>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-lambda,lambda>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-rds,rds>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-s3_daily_storage,s3_daily_storage>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-s3_request,s3_request>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-sns,sns>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-sqs,sqs>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-usage,usage>>

include::aws/billing.asciidoc[]

include::aws/cloudwatch.asciidoc[]

include::aws/dynamodb.asciidoc[]

include::aws/ebs.asciidoc[]

include::aws/ec2.asciidoc[]

include::aws/elb.asciidoc[]

include::aws/lambda.asciidoc[]

include::aws/rds.asciidoc[]

include::aws/s3_daily_storage.asciidoc[]

include::aws/s3_request.asciidoc[]

include::aws/sns.asciidoc[]

include::aws/sqs.asciidoc[]

include::aws/usage.asciidoc[]
