metricbeat/docs/modules/beat.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-beat]]
== Beat module

This is the Beat module.

The default metricsets are `state` and `stats`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The beat module is tested with metricbeat 7.3.0.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Beat module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: beat
  metricsets:
    - stats
    - state
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["http://localhost:5066"]
  #ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]

  # Set to true to send data collected by module to X-Pack
  # Monitoring instead of metricbeat-* indices.
  #xpack.enabled: false
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.
It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-beat-state,state>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-beat-stats,stats>>

include::beat/state.asciidoc[]

include::beat/stats.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[Metricbeat] Fixing up compatibility statements for stack modules (#16400) (#16426)
* [Metricbeat] Fixing up compatibility statements for stack modules

* Simplifying language

* Updating docs

* Moving Beats docs to correct location

* Updating Beat module docs

metricbeat/docs/modules/beat.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-beat]]
== Beat module

The Beat module contains a minimal set of metrics to enable monitoring of any Beat or other software based on libbeat across
multiple versions. To monitor more Beat metrics, use our {stack}
{monitor-features}.

The default metricsets are `state` and `stats`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Beat module works with Beats 7.3.0 and later.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Beat module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: beat
  metricsets:
    - stats
    - state
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["http://localhost:5066"]
  #ssl.certificate_authorities: ["/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"]

  # Set to true to send data collected by module to X-Pack
  # Monitoring instead of metricbeat-* indices.
  #xpack.enabled: false
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.
It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-beat-state,state>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-beat-stats,stats>>

include::beat/state.asciidoc[]

include::beat/stats.asciidoc[]
