metricbeat/docs/modules/docker.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

:modulename: docker

[[metricbeat-module-docker]]
== Docker module

include::{libbeat-dir}/shared/integration-link.asciidoc[]

:modulename!:

This module fetches metrics from https://www.docker.com/[Docker] containers. The default metricsets are: `container`, `cpu`, `diskio`, `healthcheck`, `info`, `memory` and `network`. The `image` metricset is not enabled by default.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Docker module is currently tested on Linux and Mac with the community
edition engine, versions 1.11 and 17.09.0-ce. It is not tested on Windows,
but it should also work there.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

It is strongly recommended that you run Docker metricsets with a
<<metricset-period,`period`>> that is 3 seconds or longer. The request to the
Docker API already takes up to 2 seconds. Specifying less than 3 seconds will
result in requests that timeout, and no data will be reported for those
requests.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Docker module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: docker
  metricsets:
    - "container"
    - "cpu"
    - "diskio"
    - "event"
    - "healthcheck"
    - "info"
    #- "image"
    - "memory"
    - "network"
    #- "network_summary"
  hosts: ["unix:///var/run/docker.sock"]
  period: 10s
  enabled: true

  # If set to true, replace dots in labels with `_`.
  #labels.dedot: false

  # If set to true, collects metrics per core.
  #cpu.cores: true

  # To connect to Docker over TLS you must specify a client and CA certificate.
  #ssl:
    #certificate_authority: "/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"
    #certificate:           "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
    #key:                   "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-container,container>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-cpu,cpu>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-diskio,diskio>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-event,event>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-healthcheck,healthcheck>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-image,image>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-memory,memory>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network,network>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network_summary,network_summary>>

include::docker/container.asciidoc[]

include::docker/cpu.asciidoc[]

include::docker/diskio.asciidoc[]

include::docker/event.asciidoc[]

include::docker/healthcheck.asciidoc[]

include::docker/image.asciidoc[]

include::docker/info.asciidoc[]

include::docker/memory.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network_summary.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

fix double-counted metrics in docker/diskio

metricbeat/docs/modules/docker.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

:modulename: docker

[[metricbeat-module-docker]]
== Docker module

include::{libbeat-dir}/shared/integration-link.asciidoc[]

:modulename!:

This module fetches metrics from https://www.docker.com/[Docker] containers. The default metricsets are: `container`, `cpu`, `diskio`, `healthcheck`, `info`, `memory` and `network`. The `image` metricset is not enabled by default.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Docker module is currently tested on Linux and Mac with the community
edition engine, versions 1.11 and 17.09.0-ce. It is not tested on Windows,
but it should also work there.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

It is strongly recommended that you run Docker metricsets with a
<<metricset-period,`period`>> that is 3 seconds or longer. The request to the
Docker API already takes up to 2 seconds. Specifying less than 3 seconds will
result in requests that timeout, and no data will be reported for those
requests.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Docker module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: docker
  metricsets:
    - "container"
    - "cpu"
    - "diskio"
    - "event"
    - "healthcheck"
    - "info"
    #- "image"
    - "memory"
    - "network"
    #- "network_summary"
  hosts: ["unix:///var/run/docker.sock"]
  period: 10s
  enabled: true

  # If set to true, replace dots in labels with `_`.
  #labels.dedot: false

  # Skip metrics certain device major numbers in docker/diskio. 
  # Necessary on systems with software RAID, device mappers, 
  # or other configurations where virtual disks will sum metrics from other disks.
  #skip_major: []

  # If set to true, collects metrics per core.
  #cpu.cores: true

  # To connect to Docker over TLS you must specify a client and CA certificate.
  #ssl:
    #certificate_authority: "/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"
    #certificate:           "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
    #key:                   "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-container,container>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-cpu,cpu>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-diskio,diskio>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-event,event>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-healthcheck,healthcheck>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-image,image>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-memory,memory>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network,network>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network_summary,network_summary>>

include::docker/container.asciidoc[]

include::docker/cpu.asciidoc[]

include::docker/diskio.asciidoc[]

include::docker/event.asciidoc[]

include::docker/healthcheck.asciidoc[]

include::docker/image.asciidoc[]

include::docker/info.asciidoc[]

include::docker/memory.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network_summary.asciidoc[]
