metricbeat/docs/modules/googlecloud.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-googlecloud]]
[role="xpack"]
== Google Cloud Platform module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from Google Cloud Platform using
https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp[Stackdriver Monitoring API] for Google Cloud Platform services.
Note: extra GCP charges on Stackdriver Monitoring API requests will be generated by this module.

[float]
== Module config and parameters
This is a list of the possible module parameters you can tune:

* *zone*: A single string with the zone you want to monitor like "us-central1-a". If you need to fetch from multiple regions, you have to setup a different configuration for each (but you don't need a new instance of Metricbeat running)
* *region*: A single string with the region you want to monitor like "us-central1". This will enable monitoring for all zones under this region.
* *project_id*: A single string with your GCP Project ID
* *credentials_file_path*: A single string pointing to the JSON file path reachable by Metricbeat that you have created using IAM.
* *exclude_labels*: (`true`/`false` default `false`) Do not extract extra labels and metadata information from Metricsets and fetch metrics onlly. At the moment, *labels and metadata extraction is only supported* in Compute Metricset.

[float]
== Authentication, authorization and permissions.
Authentication and authorization in Google Cloud Platform can be achieved in many ways. For the current version of the Google Cloud Platform module for Metricbeat, the only supported method is using Service Account JSON files. A typical JSON with a private key looks like this:

[float]
==== Example Credentials
[source,json]
----
{
  "type": "service_account",
  "project_id": "your-project-id",
  "private_key_id": "a_private_key_id",
  "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----your private key\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
  "client_email": "some-email@your-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
  "client_id": "123456",
  "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
  "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
  "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
  "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/metricbeat-testing%40your-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
}
----

Generally, you have to create a Service Account and assign it the following roles or the permissions described on each role (applies to all metricsets):

* `Compute Viewer` (1 permission in use of 138):
- `monitoring.metricDescriptors.list`
- `monitoring.timeSeries.list`

* `Monitoring Viewer` (2 permissions in use of 13)
- `compute.instances.get`

You can play in IAM pretty much with your service accounts and Instance level access to your resources (for example, allowing that everything running in an Instance is authorized to use the Compute API). The module uses Google Cloud Platform libraries for authentication so many possibilities are open but the Module is only supported by using the method mentioned above.

[float]
== Google Cloud Platform module: Under the hood

Google Cloud Platform offers the https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp[Stackdriver Monitoring API] to fetch metrics from its services. *Those metrics are retrieved one by one*.

If you also want to *extract service labels* (by setting `exclude_labels` to false, which is the default state). You also make a new API check on the corresponding service. Service labels requires a new API call to extract those metrics. In the worst case the number of API calls will be doubled. In the best case, all metrics come from the same GCP entity and 100% of the required information is included in the first API call (which is cached for subsequent calls).

A recommended `period` value between fetches is between 5 and 10 minutes, depending on how granular you want your metrics. GCP restricts information for less than 5 minutes.

[float]
=== Rough estimation of the number of API Calls
Google Cloud Platform pricing depends of the number of requests you do to their API's. Here you have some information that you can use to make an estimation of the pricing you should expect. For example, imagine that you have a Compute Metricset activated and you don't want to exclude labels. You have a total of 20 instances running in a particular GCP project, region and zone.

For example, if Compute Metricset fetches 14 metrics (which is the number of metrics fetched in the early beta version). Each of those metrics will attempt an API call to Compute API to retrieve also their metadata. Because you have 20 different instances, the total number of API calls that will be done on each refresh period are: 14 metrics + 20 instances = 34 API requests every 5 minutes if that is your current Period. 9792 API requests per day with one zone. If you add 2 zones more with the same amount of instances you'll have 19584 API requests per day (9792 on each zone) or around 587520 per month for the Compute Metricset. This maths must be done for each different Metricset with slight variations.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Google Cloud Platform module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: googlecloud
  metricsets:
    - compute
    - pubsub
    - loadbalancing
  zone: "us-central1-a"
  region: "us-central1"
  project_id: "your project id"
  credentials_file_path: "your JSON credentials file path"
  exclude_labels: false
  period: 300s
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-compute,compute>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-loadbalancing,loadbalancing>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-pubsub,pubsub>>

include::googlecloud/compute.asciidoc[]

include::googlecloud/loadbalancing.asciidoc[]

include::googlecloud/pubsub.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add googlecloud compute overview dashboard

metricbeat/docs/modules/googlecloud.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-googlecloud]]
[role="xpack"]
== Google Cloud Platform module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from Google Cloud Platform using
https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp[Stackdriver Monitoring API] for Google Cloud Platform services.
Note: extra GCP charges on Stackdriver Monitoring API requests will be generated by this module.

[float]
== Module config and parameters
This is a list of the possible module parameters you can tune:

* *zone*: A single string with the zone you want to monitor like "us-central1-a". If you need to fetch from multiple regions, you have to setup a different configuration for each (but you don't need a new instance of Metricbeat running)
* *region*: A single string with the region you want to monitor like "us-central1". This will enable monitoring for all zones under this region.
* *project_id*: A single string with your GCP Project ID
* *credentials_file_path*: A single string pointing to the JSON file path reachable by Metricbeat that you have created using IAM.
* *exclude_labels*: (`true`/`false` default `false`) Do not extract extra labels and metadata information from Metricsets and fetch metrics onlly. At the moment, *labels and metadata extraction is only supported* in Compute Metricset.

[float]
== Authentication, authorization and permissions.
Authentication and authorization in Google Cloud Platform can be achieved in many ways. For the current version of the Google Cloud Platform module for Metricbeat, the only supported method is using Service Account JSON files. A typical JSON with a private key looks like this:

[float]
==== Example Credentials
[source,json]
----
{
  "type": "service_account",
  "project_id": "your-project-id",
  "private_key_id": "a_private_key_id",
  "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----your private key\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
  "client_email": "some-email@your-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
  "client_id": "123456",
  "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
  "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
  "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
  "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/metricbeat-testing%40your-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
}
----

Generally, you have to create a Service Account and assign it the following roles or the permissions described on each role (applies to all metricsets):

* `Compute Viewer` (1 permission in use of 138):
- `monitoring.metricDescriptors.list`
- `monitoring.timeSeries.list`

* `Monitoring Viewer` (2 permissions in use of 13)
- `compute.instances.get`

You can play in IAM pretty much with your service accounts and Instance level access to your resources (for example, allowing that everything running in an Instance is authorized to use the Compute API). The module uses Google Cloud Platform libraries for authentication so many possibilities are open but the Module is only supported by using the method mentioned above.

[float]
== Google Cloud Platform module: Under the hood

Google Cloud Platform offers the https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp[Stackdriver Monitoring API] to fetch metrics from its services. *Those metrics are retrieved one by one*.

If you also want to *extract service labels* (by setting `exclude_labels` to false, which is the default state). You also make a new API check on the corresponding service. Service labels requires a new API call to extract those metrics. In the worst case the number of API calls will be doubled. In the best case, all metrics come from the same GCP entity and 100% of the required information is included in the first API call (which is cached for subsequent calls).

A recommended `period` value between fetches is between 5 and 10 minutes, depending on how granular you want your metrics. GCP restricts information for less than 5 minutes.

[float]
=== Rough estimation of the number of API Calls
Google Cloud Platform pricing depends of the number of requests you do to their API's. Here you have some information that you can use to make an estimation of the pricing you should expect. For example, imagine that you have a Compute Metricset activated and you don't want to exclude labels. You have a total of 20 instances running in a particular GCP project, region and zone.

For example, if Compute Metricset fetches 14 metrics (which is the number of metrics fetched in the early beta version). Each of those metrics will attempt an API call to Compute API to retrieve also their metadata. Because you have 20 different instances, the total number of API calls that will be done on each refresh period are: 14 metrics + 20 instances = 34 API requests every 5 minutes if that is your current Period. 9792 API requests per day with one zone. If you add 2 zones more with the same amount of instances you'll have 19584 API requests per day (9792 on each zone) or around 587520 per month for the Compute Metricset. This maths must be done for each different Metricset with slight variations.

[float]
== Metricsets
Currently, we have `compute`, `loadbalancing`, and `pubsub` metricset in
`googlecloud` module.

[float]
=== `compute`
Compute Metricset to fetch metrics from https://cloud.google.com/compute/[Compute Engine]
Virtual Machines in Google Cloud Platform. The `compute` Metricset contains some of the
metrics exported from the https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-compute[Stackdriver API].
Extra labels and metadata are also extracted using the https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1/instances/get[Compute API].
This is enough to get most of the info associated with a metric like compute
labels and metadata and metric specific Labels.

The compute metricset comes with a predefined dashboard:

image::./images/metricbeat-googlecloud-compute-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Google Cloud Platform module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: googlecloud
  metricsets:
    - compute
    - pubsub
    - loadbalancing
  zone: "us-central1-a"
  region: "us-central1"
  project_id: "your project id"
  credentials_file_path: "your JSON credentials file path"
  exclude_labels: false
  period: 300s
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-compute,compute>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-loadbalancing,loadbalancing>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-googlecloud-pubsub,pubsub>>

include::googlecloud/compute.asciidoc[]

include::googlecloud/loadbalancing.asciidoc[]

include::googlecloud/pubsub.asciidoc[]
