metricbeat/docs/modules/istio.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-istio]]
[role="xpack"]
== istio module

beta[]

This is the Istio module. The Istio module collects metrics from the
Istio https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/querying-metrics/#about-the-prometheus-add-on[prometheus exporters endpoints].

The default metricsets are `mesh`, `mixer`, `pilot`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Istio module is tested with Istio 1.4


[float]
=== Example configuration

The istio module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
# Istio mesh. To collect all all Mixer-generated metrics
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["mesh"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-telemetry.istio-system:42422, when deploying Metricbeat in a kuberentes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:42422"]

# Istio mixer. To monitor Mixer itself.
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["mixer"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-telemetry.istio-system:15014, when deploying Metricbeat in a kuberentes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:15014"]

# Istio pilot. To collect all Pilot-generated metrics.
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["pilot"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-pilot.istio-system:15014, when deploying Metricbeat in a kuberentes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:15014"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-mesh,mesh>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-mixer,mixer>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-pilot,pilot>>

include::istio/mesh.asciidoc[]

include::istio/mixer.asciidoc[]

include::istio/pilot.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add galley metricset for Istio Metricbeat module (#15857)
(cherry picked from commit 16901291020ef60d2f7f7b0c176499e38b55e161)

metricbeat/docs/modules/istio.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-istio]]
[role="xpack"]
== istio module

beta[]

This is the Istio module. The Istio module collects metrics from the
Istio https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/querying-metrics/#about-the-prometheus-add-on[prometheus exporters endpoints].

The default metricsets are `mesh`, `mixer`, `pilot`, `galley`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Istio module is tested with Istio 1.4


[float]
=== Example configuration

The istio module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
# Istio mesh. To collect all Mixer-generated metrics
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["mesh"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-telemetry.istio-system:42422, when deploying Metricbeat in a kubernetes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:42422"]

# Istio mixer. To monitor Mixer itself.
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["mixer"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-telemetry.istio-system:15014, when deploying Metricbeat in a kubernetes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:15014"]

# Istio galley. To collect all Galley-generated metrics
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["galley"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-galley.istio-system:15014, when deploying Metricbeat in a kubernetes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:15014"]

# Istio pilot. To collect all Pilot-generated metrics.
- module: istio
  metricsets: ["pilot"]
  period: 10s
  # use istio-pilot.istio-system:15014, when deploying Metricbeat in a kubernetes cluster as Pod or Daemonset
  hosts: ["localhost:15014"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-galley,galley>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-mesh,mesh>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-mixer,mixer>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-istio-pilot,pilot>>

include::istio/galley.asciidoc[]

include::istio/mesh.asciidoc[]

include::istio/mixer.asciidoc[]

include::istio/pilot.asciidoc[]
