metricbeat/docs/modules/mssql.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-mssql]]
== MSSQL module

beta[]

This is the https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-2017[Microsoft SQL 2017] Metricbeat module. It is still in beta and under active development to add new Metricsets and introduce enhancements.

[float]
== Compatibility

The module is being tested with https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/mssql-server-linux/[2017 GA] version under Linux

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricsets are already included:

[float]
=== `transaction_log`

`transaction_log` Metricset fetches information about the operation and transaction log of each MSSQL database in the monitored instance. All data is extracted from the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/database-related-dynamic-management-views-transact-sql?view=sql-server-2017[Database Dynamic Management Views]

[float]
=== `performance`

`performance` Metricset fetches information from what's commonly known as https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-os-performance-counters-transact-sql?view=sql-server-2017[Performance Counters] in MSSQL.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The MSSQL module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mssql
  metricsets:
    - "transaction_log"
    - "performance"
  hosts: ["sqlserver://sa@localhost"]
  period: 10s

----

To use credentials requiring an Active Directory domain, separate out the username and password as:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mssql
  metricsets:
    - "transaction_log"
    - "performance"
  hosts: ["sqlserver://localhost"]
  username: domain\username
  password: verysecurepassword
  period: 10s
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mssql-performance,performance>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mssql-transaction_log,transaction_log>>

include::mssql/performance.asciidoc[]

include::mssql/transaction_log.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

recommend secure keystore for passwords

metricbeat/docs/modules/mssql.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-mssql]]
== MSSQL module

beta[]

This is the https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-2017[Microsoft SQL 2017] Metricbeat module. It is still in beta and under active development to add new Metricsets and introduce enhancements.

[float]
== Compatibility

The module is being tested with https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/mssql-server-linux/[2017 GA] version under Linux

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricsets are already included:

[float]
=== `transaction_log`

`transaction_log` Metricset fetches information about the operation and transaction log of each MSSQL database in the monitored instance. All data is extracted from the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/database-related-dynamic-management-views-transact-sql?view=sql-server-2017[Database Dynamic Management Views]

[float]
=== `performance`

`performance` Metricset fetches information from what's commonly known as https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-os-performance-counters-transact-sql?view=sql-server-2017[Performance Counters] in MSSQL.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The MSSQL module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mssql
  metricsets:
    - "transaction_log"
    - "performance"
  hosts: ["sqlserver://sa@localhost"]
  period: 10s

----

To use credentials requiring an Active Directory domain, separate out the username and password as:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mssql
  metricsets:
    - "transaction_log"
    - "performance"
  hosts: ["sqlserver://localhost"]
  username: domain\username
  password: verysecurepassword
  period: 10s
----

You should store sensitive values like passwords in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mssql-performance,performance>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mssql-transaction_log,transaction_log>>

include::mssql/performance.asciidoc[]

include::mssql/transaction_log.asciidoc[]
