metricbeat/docs/modules/redis.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-redis]]
== Redis module

This module periodically fetches metrics from http://redis.io/[Redis] servers.

The defaut metricsets are `info` and `keyspace`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The Redis module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
redis://[:password@]host[:port][/db-number][?option=value]
redis://HOST[:PORT][?password=PASSWORD[&db=DATABASE]]
*`password`*:: The password to authenticate, by default it's empty.
*`idle_timeout`*:: The duration to remain idle before closing connections. If
  the value is zero, then idle connections are not closed. The default value
  is 2 times the module period to allow a connection to be reused across
  fetches. The `idle_timeout` should be set to less than the server's connection
  timeout.
*`network`*:: The network type to be used for the Redis connection. The default value is
  `tcp`.
*`maxconn`*:: The maximum number of concurrent connections to Redis. The default value
  is 10.


[float]
=== Compatibility

The Redis metricsets were tested with Redis 3.2.12, 4.0.11 and 5.0-rc4,  and are expected
to work with all versions >= 3.0.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Redis module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: redis
  metricsets: ["info", "keyspace"]
  enabled: true
  period: 10s

  # Redis hosts
  hosts: ["127.0.0.1:6379"]

  # Timeout after which time a metricset should return an error
  # Timeout is by default defined as period, as a fetch of a metricset
  # should never take longer then period, as otherwise calls can pile up.
  #timeout: 1s

  # Optional fields to be added to each event
  #fields:
  #  datacenter: west

  # Network type to be used for redis connection. Default: tcp
  #network: tcp

  # Max number of concurrent connections. Default: 10
  #maxconn: 10

  # Filters can be used to reduce the number of fields sent.
  #processors:
  #  - include_fields:
  #      fields: ["beat", "metricset", "redis.info.stats"]

  # Redis AUTH password. Empty by default.
  #password: foobared
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-key,key>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-keyspace,keyspace>>

include::redis/info.asciidoc[]

include::redis/key.asciidoc[]

include::redis/keyspace.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add metricsets - node and proxy

metricbeat/docs/modules/redis.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-redis]]
== Redis module

This module periodically fetches metrics from http://redis.io/[Redis] servers.

The defaut metricsets are `info` and `keyspace`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The Redis module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
redis://[:password@]host[:port][/db-number][?option=value]
redis://HOST[:PORT][?password=PASSWORD[&db=DATABASE]]
*`password`*:: The password to authenticate, by default it's empty.
*`idle_timeout`*:: The duration to remain idle before closing connections. If
  the value is zero, then idle connections are not closed. The default value
  is 2 times the module period to allow a connection to be reused across
  fetches. The `idle_timeout` should be set to less than the server's connection
  timeout.
*`network`*:: The network type to be used for the Redis connection. The default value is
  `tcp`.
*`maxconn`*:: The maximum number of concurrent connections to Redis. The default value
  is 10.


[float]
=== Compatibility

The redis metricsets `info`, `key` and `keyspace` are compatible with the open source distribution of Redis. They were
tested with Redis 3.2.12, 4.0.11 and 5.0-rc4, and are expected to work with all versions >= 3.0.

The metricsets `node` and `proxy` are compatible with Redis Enterprise Software (RES). There were tested with RES
5.4.10-22 and are expected to work with all versions >= 5.0.2.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Redis module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: redis
  metricsets: ["info", "keyspace"]
  enabled: true
  period: 10s

  # Redis hosts
  hosts: ["127.0.0.1:6379"]

  # Timeout after which time a metricset should return an error
  # Timeout is by default defined as period, as a fetch of a metricset
  # should never take longer then period, as otherwise calls can pile up.
  #timeout: 1s

  # Optional fields to be added to each event
  #fields:
  #  datacenter: west

  # Network type to be used for redis connection. Default: tcp
  #network: tcp

  # Max number of concurrent connections. Default: 10
  #maxconn: 10

  # Filters can be used to reduce the number of fields sent.
  #processors:
  #  - include_fields:
  #      fields: ["beat", "metricset", "redis.info.stats"]

  # Redis AUTH password. Empty by default.
  #password: foobared
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-key,key>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-keyspace,keyspace>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-node,node>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redis-proxy,proxy>>

include::redis/info.asciidoc[]

include::redis/key.asciidoc[]

include::redis/keyspace.asciidoc[]

include::redis/node.asciidoc[]

include::redis/proxy.asciidoc[]
