metricbeat/docs/modules/redisenterprise.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-redisenterprise]]
[role="xpack"]
== Redis Enterprise module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://redislabs.com/redis-enterprise/[Redis Enterprise Software].

The defaut metricsets are `node` and `proxy`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The Redis module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
https://HOST[:PORT]

[float]
=== Compatibility

The metricsets `node` and `proxy` are compatible with Redis Enterprise Software (RES). There were tested with RES
5.4.10-22 and are expected to work with all versions >= 5.0.2.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Redis Enterprise module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: redisenterprise
  metricsets:
    - node
    - proxy
  period: 1m

  # Metrics endpoint
  hosts: ["https://127.0.0.1:8070/"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redisenterprise-node,node>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redisenterprise-proxy,proxy>>

include::redisenterprise/node.asciidoc[]

include::redisenterprise/proxy.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[Metricbeat] Add dashboard for redisenterprise (#16752) (#16789)
* Add dashboard for redisenterprise
* Update screenshot

(cherry picked from commit 07a9c754e6035cef75331c6d4c3b5e270b9e2cb2)

metricbeat/docs/modules/redisenterprise.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-redisenterprise]]
[role="xpack"]
== Redis Enterprise module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://redislabs.com/redis-enterprise/[Redis Enterprise Software].

The defaut metricsets are `node` and `proxy`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The `redisenterprise` module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
https://HOST[:PORT]

[float]
=== Compatibility

The metricsets `node` and `proxy` are compatible with Redis Enterprise Software (RES). There were tested with RES
5.4.10-22 and are expected to work with all versions >= 5.0.2.

[float]
=== Dashboard

The `redisenterprise` module includes a predefined dashboard with overview information
of the monitored servers.

image::./images/metricbeat-redisenterprise-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Redis Enterprise module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: redisenterprise
  metricsets:
    - node
    - proxy
  period: 1m

  # Metrics endpoint
  hosts: ["https://127.0.0.1:8070/"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redisenterprise-node,node>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-redisenterprise-proxy,proxy>>

include::redisenterprise/node.asciidoc[]

include::redisenterprise/proxy.asciidoc[]
