metricbeat/docs/modules/zookeeper.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-zookeeper]]
== ZooKeeper module

The ZooKeeper module fetches statistics from the ZooKeeper service. The default
metricset is `mntr` and `server`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The ZooKeeper metricsets were tested with ZooKeeper 3.4.8 and are expected to work with all version
>= 3.4.0. Versions prior to 3.4 do not support the `mntr` command.

[float]
=== Dashboard

The Zookeeper module comes with a predefined dashboard:

image::./images/metricbeat-zookeeper.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The ZooKeeper module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: zookeeper
  enabled: true
  metricsets: ["mntr", "server"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:2181"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-connection,connection>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-mntr,mntr>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-server,server>>

include::zookeeper/connection.asciidoc[]

include::zookeeper/mntr.asciidoc[]

include::zookeeper/server.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

start adding in default metricsets

metricbeat/docs/modules/zookeeper.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/mage/docs_collector.go
////

[[metricbeat-module-zookeeper]]
== ZooKeeper module

The ZooKeeper module fetches statistics from the ZooKeeper service. The default
metricset is `mntr` and `server`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The ZooKeeper metricsets were tested with ZooKeeper 3.4.8 and are expected to work with all version
>= 3.4.0. Versions prior to 3.4 do not support the `mntr` command.

[float]
=== Dashboard

The Zookeeper module comes with a predefined dashboard:

image::./images/metricbeat-zookeeper.png[]

== Default Metricsets
The following Metricsets are default:

- server
- mntr

[float]
=== Example configuration

The ZooKeeper module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: zookeeper
  enabled: true
  metricsets: ["mntr", "server"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:2181"]
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-connection,connection>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-mntr,mntr>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-zookeeper-server,server>>

include::zookeeper/connection.asciidoc[]

include::zookeeper/mntr.asciidoc[]

include::zookeeper/server.asciidoc[]
