x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-http-endpoint.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:type: http_endpoint

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== HTTP Endpoint input

++++
<titleabbrev>HTTP Endpoint</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

The HTTP Endpoint input initializes a listening HTTP server that collects
incoming HTTP POST requests containing a JSON body. The body must be either an
object or an array of objects. Any other data types will result in an HTTP 400
(Bad Request) response. For arrays, one document is created for each object in
the array.

gzip encoded request bodies are supported if a `Content-Encoding: gzip` header
is sent with the request.

This input can for example be used to receive incoming webhooks from a
third-party application or service.

Multiple endpoints may be assigned to a single address and port, and the HTTP
Endpoint input will resolve requests based on the URL pattern configuration.
If multiple endpoints are configured on a single address they must all have the
same TLS configuration, either all disabled or all enabled with identical
configurations.

These are the possible response codes from the server.

[options="header"]
|=========================================================================================================================================================
| HTTP Response Code  | Name                    | Reason
| 200                 | OK                      | Returned on success.
| 400                 | Bad Request             | Returned if JSON body decoding fails.
| 401                 | Unauthorized            | Returned when basic auth, secret header, or HMAC validation fails.
| 405                 | Method Not Allowed      | Returned if methods other than POST are used.
| 406                 | Not Acceptable          | Returned if the POST request does not contain a body.
| 415                 | Unsupported Media Type  | Returned if the Content-Type is not application/json. Or if Content-Encoding is present and is not gzip.
| 500                 | Internal Server Error   | Returned if an I/O error occurs reading the request.
|=========================================================================================================================================================

Example configurations:

Basic example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
----

Custom response example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  response_code: 200
  response_body: '{"message": "success"}'
  url: "/"
  prefix: "json"
----

Multiple endpoints example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  url: "/open/"
  tags: [open]
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  url: "/admin/"
  basic_auth: true
  username: adminuser
  password: somepassword
  tags: [admin]
----

Disable Content-Type checks
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  content_type: ""
  prefix: "json"
----

Basic auth and SSL example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  ssl.enabled: true
  ssl.certificate: "/home/user/server.pem"
  ssl.key: "/home/user/server.key"
  ssl.verification_mode: "none"
  ssl.certificate_authority: "/home/user/ca.pem"
  basic_auth: true
  username: someuser
  password: somepassword
----

Authentication or checking that a specific header includes a specific value
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  secret.header: someheadername
  secret.value: secretheadertoken
----

Validate webhook endpoint for a specific provider using CRC
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  secret.header: someheadername
  secret.value: secretheadertoken
  crc.provider: webhookProvider
  crc.secret: secretToken
----

Validate a HMAC signature from a specific header
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  hmac.header: "X-Hub-Signature-256"
  hmac.key: "password123"
  hmac.type: "sha256"
  hmac.prefix: "sha256="
----

Preserving original event and including headers in document
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  preserve_original_event: true
  include_headers: ["TestHeader"]
----

==== Configuration options

The `http_endpoint` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
==== `basic_auth`

Enables or disables HTTP basic auth for each incoming request. If enabled then `username` and `password` will also need to be configured.

[float]
==== `username`

If `basic_auth` is enabled, this is the username used for authentication against the HTTP listener. Requires `password` to also be set.

[float]
==== `password`

If `basic_auth` is enabled, this is the password used for authentication against the HTTP listener. Requires `username` to also be set.

[float]
==== `secret.header`

The header to check for a specific value specified by `secret.value`. Certain webhooks provide the possibility to include a special header and secret to identify the source.

[float]
==== `secret.value`

The secret stored in the header name specified by `secret.header`. Certain webhooks provide the possibility to include a special header and secret to identify the source.

[float]
==== `hmac.header`

The name of the header that contains the HMAC signature: `X-Dropbox-Signature`, `X-Hub-Signature-256`, etc.

[float]
==== `hmac.key`

The secret key used to calculate the HMAC signature. Typically, the webhook sender provides this value.

[float]
==== `hmac.type`

The hash algorithm to use for the HMAC comparison. At this time the only valid values are `sha256` or `sha1`.

[float]
==== `hmac.prefix`

The prefix for the signature. Certain webhooks prefix the HMAC signature with a value, for example `sha256=`.

[float]
==== `content_type`

By default the input expects the incoming POST to include a Content-Type of `application/json` to try to enforce the incoming data to be valid JSON.
In certain scenarios when the source of the request is not able to do that, it can be overwritten with another value or set to null.

[float]
==== `response_code`

The HTTP response code returned upon success. Should be in the 2XX range.

[float]
==== `response_body`

The response body returned upon success.

[float]
==== `listen_address`

If multiple interfaces is present the `listen_address` can be set to control which IP address the listener binds to. Defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

[float]
==== `listen_port`

Which port the listener binds to. Defaults to 8000.

[float]
==== `url`

This options specific which URL path to accept requests on. Defaults to `/`

[float]
==== `prefix`

This option specifies which prefix the incoming request will be mapped to.

[float]
==== `include_headers`

This options specifies a list of HTTP headers that should be copied from the incoming request and included in the document.
All configured headers will always be canonicalized to match the headers of the incoming request.
For example, `["content-type"]` will become `["Content-Type"]` when the filebeat is running.

[float]
==== `preserve_original_event`

This option copies the raw unmodified body of the incoming request to the event.original field as a string before sending the event to Elasticsearch.

[float]
==== `crc.provider`

This option defines the provider of the webhook that uses CRC (Challenge-Response Check) for validating the endpoint. The HTTP endpoint input is responsible for ensuring the authenticity of incoming webhook requests by generating and verifying a unique token. By specifying the `crc.provider`, you ensure that the system correctly handles the specific CRC validation process required by the chosen provider.

[float]
==== `crc.secret`

The secret token provided by the webhook owner for the CRC validation. It is required when a `crc.provider` is set.

[float]
==== `method`

The HTTP method handled by the endpoint. If specified, `method` must be `POST`, `PUT` or `PATCH`.
The default method is `POST`. If `PUT` or `PATCH` are specified, requests using those method types are accepted, but are treated as `POST` requests and are expected to have a request body containing the request data.

[float]
==== `tracer.filename`

It is possible to log HTTP requests to a local file-system for debugging configurations.
This option is enabled by setting the `tracer.filename` value. Additional options are available to
tune log rotation behavior.

To differentiate the trace files generated from different input instances, a placeholder `*` can be added to the filename and will be replaced with the input instance id.
For Example, `http-request-trace-*.ndjson`.

Enabling this option compromises security and should only be used for debugging.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxsize`

This value sets the maximum size, in megabytes, the log file will reach before it is rotated. By default
logs are allowed to reach 1MB before rotation.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxage`

This specifies the number days to retain rotated log files. If it is not set, log files are retained
indefinitely.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxbackups`

The number of old logs to retain. If it is not set all old logs are retained subject to the `tracer.maxage`
setting.

[float]
==== `tracer.localtime`

Whether to use the host's local time rather that UTC for timestamping rotated log file names.

[float]
==== `tracer.compress`

This determines whether rotated logs should be gzip compressed.

[float]
=== Metrics

This input exposes metrics under the <<http-endpoint, HTTP monitoring endpoint>>.
These metrics are exposed under the `/inputs` path. They can be used to
observe the activity of the input.

[options="header"]
|=======
| Metric                    | Description
| `bind_address`            | Bind address of input.
| `route`                   | HTTP request route of the input.
| `is_tls_connection`       | Whether the input is listening on a TLS connection.
| `api_errors_total`        | Number of API errors.
| `batches_received_total`  | Number of event arrays received.
| `batches_published_total` | Number of event arrays published.
| `events_published_total`  | Number of events published.
| `size`                    | Histogram of request content lengths.
| `batch_size`              | Histogram of the received event array length.
| `batch_processing_time`   | Histogram of the elapsed successful batch processing times in nanoseconds (time of receipt to time of ACK for non-empty batches).
|=======

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

x-pack/filebeat/input/http_endpoint: generalise event path using CEL (#38193)
Allow users to handle events where multiple events are provided via single JSON
objects in an array field. This is enabled by providing an optional CEL program
with only minimal support for CEL evaluations; no extensions from the mito lib
extensions are made available.

x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-http-endpoint.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:type: http_endpoint

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== HTTP Endpoint input

++++
<titleabbrev>HTTP Endpoint</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

The HTTP Endpoint input initializes a listening HTTP server that collects
incoming HTTP POST requests containing a JSON body. The body must be either an
object or an array of objects. Any other data types will result in an HTTP 400
(Bad Request) response. For arrays, one document is created for each object in
the array.

gzip encoded request bodies are supported if a `Content-Encoding: gzip` header
is sent with the request.

This input can for example be used to receive incoming webhooks from a
third-party application or service.

Multiple endpoints may be assigned to a single address and port, and the HTTP
Endpoint input will resolve requests based on the URL pattern configuration.
If multiple endpoints are configured on a single address they must all have the
same TLS configuration, either all disabled or all enabled with identical
configurations.

These are the possible response codes from the server.

[options="header"]
|=========================================================================================================================================================
| HTTP Response Code  | Name                    | Reason
| 200                 | OK                      | Returned on success.
| 400                 | Bad Request             | Returned if JSON body decoding fails.
| 401                 | Unauthorized            | Returned when basic auth, secret header, or HMAC validation fails.
| 405                 | Method Not Allowed      | Returned if methods other than POST are used.
| 406                 | Not Acceptable          | Returned if the POST request does not contain a body.
| 415                 | Unsupported Media Type  | Returned if the Content-Type is not application/json. Or if Content-Encoding is present and is not gzip.
| 500                 | Internal Server Error   | Returned if an I/O error occurs reading the request.
|=========================================================================================================================================================

Example configurations:

Basic example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
----

Custom response example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  response_code: 200
  response_body: '{"message": "success"}'
  url: "/"
  prefix: "json"
----

Multiple endpoints example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  url: "/open/"
  tags: [open]
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  url: "/admin/"
  basic_auth: true
  username: adminuser
  password: somepassword
  tags: [admin]
----

Disable Content-Type checks
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  content_type: ""
  prefix: "json"
----

Basic auth and SSL example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  ssl.enabled: true
  ssl.certificate: "/home/user/server.pem"
  ssl.key: "/home/user/server.key"
  ssl.verification_mode: "none"
  ssl.certificate_authority: "/home/user/ca.pem"
  basic_auth: true
  username: someuser
  password: somepassword
----

Authentication or checking that a specific header includes a specific value
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  secret.header: someheadername
  secret.value: secretheadertoken
----

Validate webhook endpoint for a specific provider using CRC
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  secret.header: someheadername
  secret.value: secretheadertoken
  crc.provider: webhookProvider
  crc.secret: secretToken
----

Validate a HMAC signature from a specific header
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  hmac.header: "X-Hub-Signature-256"
  hmac.key: "password123"
  hmac.type: "sha256"
  hmac.prefix: "sha256="
----

Preserving original event and including headers in document
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: http_endpoint
  enabled: true
  listen_address: 192.168.1.1
  listen_port: 8080
  preserve_original_event: true
  include_headers: ["TestHeader"]
----

==== Configuration options

The `http_endpoint` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
==== `basic_auth`

Enables or disables HTTP basic auth for each incoming request. If enabled then `username` and `password` will also need to be configured.

[float]
==== `username`

If `basic_auth` is enabled, this is the username used for authentication against the HTTP listener. Requires `password` to also be set.

[float]
==== `password`

If `basic_auth` is enabled, this is the password used for authentication against the HTTP listener. Requires `username` to also be set.

[float]
==== `secret.header`

The header to check for a specific value specified by `secret.value`. Certain webhooks provide the possibility to include a special header and secret to identify the source.

[float]
==== `secret.value`

The secret stored in the header name specified by `secret.header`. Certain webhooks provide the possibility to include a special header and secret to identify the source.

[float]
==== `hmac.header`

The name of the header that contains the HMAC signature: `X-Dropbox-Signature`, `X-Hub-Signature-256`, etc.

[float]
==== `hmac.key`

The secret key used to calculate the HMAC signature. Typically, the webhook sender provides this value.

[float]
==== `hmac.type`

The hash algorithm to use for the HMAC comparison. At this time the only valid values are `sha256` or `sha1`.

[float]
==== `hmac.prefix`

The prefix for the signature. Certain webhooks prefix the HMAC signature with a value, for example `sha256=`.

[float]
==== `content_type`

By default the input expects the incoming POST to include a Content-Type of `application/json` to try to enforce the incoming data to be valid JSON.
In certain scenarios when the source of the request is not able to do that, it can be overwritten with another value or set to null.

[float]
==== `program`

The normal operation of the input treats the body either as a single event when the body is an object, or as a set of events when the body is an array. If the body should be treated handled differently, for example a set of events in an array field of an object to be handled as a set of events, then a https://opensource.google.com/projects/cel[Common Expression Language (CEL)] program can be provided through this configuration field. No CEL extensions are provided beyond the function in the CEL https://github.com/google/cel-spec/blob/master/doc/langdef.md#standard[standard library]. CEL https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/google/cel-go/cel#OptionalTypes[optional types] are supported.

[float]
==== `response_code`

The HTTP response code returned upon success. Should be in the 2XX range.

[float]
==== `response_body`

The response body returned upon success.

[float]
==== `listen_address`

If multiple interfaces is present the `listen_address` can be set to control which IP address the listener binds to. Defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

[float]
==== `listen_port`

Which port the listener binds to. Defaults to 8000.

[float]
==== `url`

This options specific which URL path to accept requests on. Defaults to `/`

[float]
==== `prefix`

This option specifies which prefix the incoming request will be mapped to.

[float]
==== `include_headers`

This options specifies a list of HTTP headers that should be copied from the incoming request and included in the document.
All configured headers will always be canonicalized to match the headers of the incoming request.
For example, `["content-type"]` will become `["Content-Type"]` when the filebeat is running.

[float]
==== `preserve_original_event`

This option copies the raw unmodified body of the incoming request to the event.original field as a string before sending the event to Elasticsearch.

[float]
==== `crc.provider`

This option defines the provider of the webhook that uses CRC (Challenge-Response Check) for validating the endpoint. The HTTP endpoint input is responsible for ensuring the authenticity of incoming webhook requests by generating and verifying a unique token. By specifying the `crc.provider`, you ensure that the system correctly handles the specific CRC validation process required by the chosen provider.

[float]
==== `crc.secret`

The secret token provided by the webhook owner for the CRC validation. It is required when a `crc.provider` is set.

[float]
==== `method`

The HTTP method handled by the endpoint. If specified, `method` must be `POST`, `PUT` or `PATCH`.
The default method is `POST`. If `PUT` or `PATCH` are specified, requests using those method types are accepted, but are treated as `POST` requests and are expected to have a request body containing the request data.

[float]
==== `tracer.filename`

It is possible to log HTTP requests to a local file-system for debugging configurations.
This option is enabled by setting the `tracer.filename` value. Additional options are available to
tune log rotation behavior.

To differentiate the trace files generated from different input instances, a placeholder `*` can be added to the filename and will be replaced with the input instance id.
For Example, `http-request-trace-*.ndjson`.

Enabling this option compromises security and should only be used for debugging.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxsize`

This value sets the maximum size, in megabytes, the log file will reach before it is rotated. By default
logs are allowed to reach 1MB before rotation.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxage`

This specifies the number days to retain rotated log files. If it is not set, log files are retained
indefinitely.

[float]
==== `tracer.maxbackups`

The number of old logs to retain. If it is not set all old logs are retained subject to the `tracer.maxage`
setting.

[float]
==== `tracer.localtime`

Whether to use the host's local time rather that UTC for timestamping rotated log file names.

[float]
==== `tracer.compress`

This determines whether rotated logs should be gzip compressed.

[float]
=== Metrics

This input exposes metrics under the <<http-endpoint, HTTP monitoring endpoint>>.
These metrics are exposed under the `/inputs` path. They can be used to
observe the activity of the input.

[options="header"]
|=======
| Metric                    | Description
| `bind_address`            | Bind address of input.
| `route`                   | HTTP request route of the input.
| `is_tls_connection`       | Whether the input is listening on a TLS connection.
| `api_errors_total`        | Number of API errors.
| `batches_received_total`  | Number of event arrays received.
| `batches_published_total` | Number of event arrays published.
| `events_published_total`  | Number of events published.
| `size`                    | Histogram of request content lengths.
| `batch_size`              | Histogram of the received event array length.
| `batch_processing_time`   | Histogram of the elapsed successful batch processing times in nanoseconds (time of receipt to time of ACK for non-empty batches).
|=======

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
