x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-netflow.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:type: netflow

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== NetFlow input

++++
<titleabbrev>NetFlow</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `netflow` input to read NetFlow and IPFIX exported flows
and options records over UDP.

This input supports NetFlow versions 1, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, as well as
IPFIX. For NetFlow versions older than 9, fields are mapped automatically
to NetFlow v9.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: netflow
  max_message_size: 10KiB
  host: "0.0.0.0:2055"
  protocols: [ v5, v9, ipfix ]
  expiration_timeout: 30m
  queue_size: 8192
  custom_definitions:
  - path/to/fields.yml
  detect_sequence_reset: true
----


==== Configuration options

The `netflow` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-udp-options.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[protocols]]
==== `protocols`

List of enabled protocols.
Valid values are `v1`, `v5`, `v6`, `v7`, `v8`, `v9` and `ipfix`.

[float]
[[expiration_timeout]]
==== `expiration_timeout`

The time before an idle session or unused template is expired.
Only applicable to v9 and IPFIX protocols. A value of zero disables expiration.

[float]
[[share_templates]]
==== `share_templates`

This option allows v9 and ipfix templates to be shared within a session without
reference to the origin of the template.

Note that setting this to true is not recommended as it can result in the wrong
template being applied under certain conditions, but it may be required for some
systems.

[float]
[[queue_size]]
==== `queue_size`

The maximum number of packets that can be queued for processing.
Use this setting to avoid packet-loss when dealing with occasional bursts
of traffic.

[float]
[[custom_definitions]]
==== `custom_definitions`

A list of paths to field definitions YAML files. These allow to update the
NetFlow/IPFIX fields with vendor extensions and to override existing fields.

The expected format is the same as used by Logstash's NetFlow codec
{logstash-ref}/plugins-codecs-netflow.html#plugins-codecs-netflow-ipfix_definitions[ipfix_definitions]
and {logstash-ref}/plugins-codecs-netflow.html#plugins-codecs-netflow-netflow_definitions[netflow_definitions].
{beatname_uc} will detect which of the two formats is used.

NetFlow format example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
id:
- default length in bytes
- :name
id:
- :uintN or :intN: or :ip4_addr or :ip6_addr or :mac_addr or :string
- :name
id:
- :skip


Where `id` is the numeric field ID.

The IPFIX format similar, but grouped by Private Enterprise Number (PEN):
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
pen1:
  id:
  - :uintN or :ip4_addr or :ip6_addr or :mac_addr or :string
  - :name
  id:
  - :skip
pen2:
  id:
  - :octetarray
  - :name

Note that fields are shared between NetFlow V9 and IPFIX. Changes to
IPFIX PEN zero are equivalent to changes to NetFlow fields.

[WARNING]
Overriding the names and/or types of standard fields can prevent
mapping of ECS fields to function properly.

[float]
[[detect_sequence_reset]]
==== `detect_sequence_reset`

Flag controlling whether {beatname_uc} should monitor sequence numbers in the
Netflow packets to detect an Exporting Process reset. When this condition is
detected, record templates for the given exporter will be dropped. This will
cause flow loss until the exporter provides new templates. If set to `false`,
{beatname_uc} will ignore sequence numbers, which can cause some invalid flows
if the exporter process is reset. This option is only applicable to Netflow V9
and IPFIX. Default is `true`.

[float]
[[internal_networks]]
==== `internal_networks`

A list of CIDR ranges describing the IP addresses that you consider internal.
This is used in determining the values of `source.locality`,
`destination.locality`, and `flow.locality`. The values can be either a CIDR
value or one of the named ranges supported by the
<<condition-network, `network`>> condition. The default value is `[private]`
which classifies RFC 1918 (IPv4) and RFC 4193 (IPv6) addresses as internal.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

[filebeat] add netflow input metrics (#38055)
* feat: introduce input/netmetrics to allow multiple inputs utilise the same tcp and/or udp metrics

* feat: add netflow input specific metrics discarded_events_total, flows_total, decode_errors_total

* feat: add netflow input specific metric open_connections

* fix: omit the name of unused receivers

* fix: remove deprecated ioutil with io

* fix: remove redundant type conversion

* fix: address naked return

* fix: proper equality check in TestSessionState

* fix: ignore explicitly the error from registering v9 protocol

* doc: update changelog

* feat: refactor netmetrics to instantiate and expose monitoring registry

* feat: rename GetRegistry to Registry in TCP and UDP of netmetrics to promote idiomatic go

* doc: update input-netflow.asciidoc to capture the new metrics

* fix: move metrics last in input-netflow.asciidoc

x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-netflow.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:type: netflow

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== NetFlow input

++++
<titleabbrev>NetFlow</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `netflow` input to read NetFlow and IPFIX exported flows
and options records over UDP.

This input supports NetFlow versions 1, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, as well as
IPFIX. For NetFlow versions older than 9, fields are mapped automatically
to NetFlow v9.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: netflow
  max_message_size: 10KiB
  host: "0.0.0.0:2055"
  protocols: [ v5, v9, ipfix ]
  expiration_timeout: 30m
  queue_size: 8192
  custom_definitions:
  - path/to/fields.yml
  detect_sequence_reset: true
----


==== Configuration options

The `netflow` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-udp-options.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[protocols]]
==== `protocols`

List of enabled protocols.
Valid values are `v1`, `v5`, `v6`, `v7`, `v8`, `v9` and `ipfix`.

[float]
[[expiration_timeout]]
==== `expiration_timeout`

The time before an idle session or unused template is expired.
Only applicable to v9 and IPFIX protocols. A value of zero disables expiration.

[float]
[[share_templates]]
==== `share_templates`

This option allows v9 and ipfix templates to be shared within a session without
reference to the origin of the template.

Note that setting this to true is not recommended as it can result in the wrong
template being applied under certain conditions, but it may be required for some
systems.

[float]
[[queue_size]]
==== `queue_size`

The maximum number of packets that can be queued for processing.
Use this setting to avoid packet-loss when dealing with occasional bursts
of traffic.

[float]
[[custom_definitions]]
==== `custom_definitions`

A list of paths to field definitions YAML files. These allow to update the
NetFlow/IPFIX fields with vendor extensions and to override existing fields.

The expected format is the same as used by Logstash's NetFlow codec
{logstash-ref}/plugins-codecs-netflow.html#plugins-codecs-netflow-ipfix_definitions[ipfix_definitions]
and {logstash-ref}/plugins-codecs-netflow.html#plugins-codecs-netflow-netflow_definitions[netflow_definitions].
{beatname_uc} will detect which of the two formats is used.

NetFlow format example:
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
id:
- default length in bytes
- :name
id:
- :uintN or :intN: or :ip4_addr or :ip6_addr or :mac_addr or :string
- :name
id:
- :skip


Where `id` is the numeric field ID.

The IPFIX format similar, but grouped by Private Enterprise Number (PEN):
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
pen1:
  id:
  - :uintN or :ip4_addr or :ip6_addr or :mac_addr or :string
  - :name
  id:
  - :skip
pen2:
  id:
  - :octetarray
  - :name

Note that fields are shared between NetFlow V9 and IPFIX. Changes to
IPFIX PEN zero are equivalent to changes to NetFlow fields.

[WARNING]
Overriding the names and/or types of standard fields can prevent
mapping of ECS fields to function properly.

[float]
[[detect_sequence_reset]]
==== `detect_sequence_reset`

Flag controlling whether {beatname_uc} should monitor sequence numbers in the
Netflow packets to detect an Exporting Process reset. When this condition is
detected, record templates for the given exporter will be dropped. This will
cause flow loss until the exporter provides new templates. If set to `false`,
{beatname_uc} will ignore sequence numbers, which can cause some invalid flows
if the exporter process is reset. This option is only applicable to Netflow V9
and IPFIX. Default is `true`.

[float]
[[internal_networks]]
==== `internal_networks`

A list of CIDR ranges describing the IP addresses that you consider internal.
This is used in determining the values of `source.locality`,
`destination.locality`, and `flow.locality`. The values can be either a CIDR
value or one of the named ranges supported by the
<<condition-network, `network`>> condition. The default value is `[private]`
which classifies RFC 1918 (IPv4) and RFC 4193 (IPv6) addresses as internal.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

[float]
=== Metrics

This input exposes metrics under the <<http-endpoint, HTTP monitoring endpoint>>.
These metrics are exposed under the `/inputs/` path. They can be used to
observe the activity of the input.

You must assign a unique `id` to the input to expose metrics.

[options="header"]
|=======
| Metric                         | Description
| `device`                       | Host/port of the UDP stream.
| `udp_read_buffer_length_gauge` | Size of the UDP socket buffer length in bytes (gauge).
| `received_events_total`        | Total number of packets (events) that have been received.
| `received_bytes_total`         | Total number of bytes received.
| `receive_queue_length`         | Aggregated size of the system receive queues (IPv4 and IPv6) (linux only) (gauge).
| `system_packet_drops`          | Aggregated number of system packet drops (IPv4 and IPv6) (linux only) (gauge).
| `arrival_period`               | Histogram of the time between successive packets in nanoseconds.
| `processing_time`              | Histogram of the time taken to process packets in nanoseconds.
| `discarded_events_total`       | Total number of discarded events.
| `decode_errors_total`          | Total number of errors at decoding a packet.
| `flows_total`                  | Total number of received flows.
| `open_connections`             | Number of current active netflow sessions.
|=======

Histogram metrics are aggregated over the previous 1024 events.

:type!:
