x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-o365audit.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:type: o365audit

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Office 365 Management Activity API input

++++
<titleabbrev>Office 365 Management Activity API</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

Use the `o365audit` input to retrieve audit messages from Office 365
and Azure AD activity logs. These are the same logs that are available under
_Audit_ _log_ _search_ in the _Security_ _and_ _Compliance_ center.

A single input instance can be used to fetch events for multiple tenants as long
as a single application is configured to access all tenants. Certificate-based
authentication is recommended in this scenario.

This input doesn't perform any transformation on the incoming messages, notably
no {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[Elastic Common Schema fields] are populated, and
some data is encoded as arrays of objects, which are difficult to query in
Elasticsearch. You probably want to use the
{filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-o365.html[Office 365 module] instead.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: o365audit
  application_id: my-application-id
  tenant_id: my-tenant-id
  client_secret: my-client-secret
----

Multi-tenancy and certificate-based authentication is also supported:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: o365audit
  application_id: my-application-id
  tenant_id:
    - tenant-id-A
    - tenant-id-B
    - tenant-id-C
  certificate: /path/to/cert.pem
  key: /path/to/private.pem
  # key_passphrase: "my key's password"
----

==== Configuration options

The `o365audit` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
===== `application_id`

The Application ID (also known as Client ID) of the Azure application to
authenticate as.

[float]
===== `tenant_id`

The tenant ID (also known as Directory ID) whose data is to be fetched. It's
also possible to specify a list of tenants IDs to fetch data from more than
one tenant.

[float]
===== `content_type`

List of content types to fetch. The default is to fetch all known content types:

- Audit.AzureActiveDirectory
- Audit.Exchange
- Audit.SharePoint
- Audit.General
- DLP.All

[float]
===== `client_secret`

The client secret used for authentication.

[float]
===== `certificate`

Path to the public certificate file used for certificate-based authentication.

[float]
===== `key`

Path to the certificate's private key file for certificate-based authentication.

[float]
===== `key_passphrase`

Passphrase used to decrypt the private key.

[float]
===== `api.authentication_endpoint`

The authentication endpoint used to authorize the Azure app. This is
`https://login.microsoftonline.com/` by default, and can be changed to access
alternative endpoints.

===== `api.resource`

The API resource to retrieve information from. This is
`https://manage.office.com` by default, and can be changed to access alternative
endpoints.

===== `api.max_retention`

The maximum data retention period to support. `168h` by default. {beatname_uc}
will fetch all retained data for a tenant when run for the first time.

===== `api.poll_interval`

The interval to wait before polling the API server for new events. Default `3m`.

===== `api.max_requests_per_minute`

The maximum number of requests to perform per minute, for each tenant. The
default is `2000`, as this is the server-side limit per tenant.

===== `api.max_query_size`

The maximum time window that API allows in a single query. Defaults to `24h`
to match Microsoft's documented limit.

===== `api.preserve_original_event`

Controls whether the original o365 audit object will be kept in `event.original`
 or not. Defaults to `false`.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

x-pack/filebeat/input/o365audit: deprecate input (#38922)

x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-o365audit.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:type: o365audit

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Office 365 Management Activity API input

deprecated:[8.14.0]

The o365audit input is deprecated. For collecting Microsoft Office 365 log data, please use the https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/o365[Microsoft 365] integration package. For more complex or user-specific use cases, similar functionality can be achieved using the <<filebeat-input-cel,`CEL input`>> .

++++
<titleabbrev>Office 365 Management Activity API</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

Use the `o365audit` input to retrieve audit messages from Office 365
and Azure AD activity logs. These are the same logs that are available under
_Audit_ _log_ _search_ in the _Security_ _and_ _Compliance_ center.

A single input instance can be used to fetch events for multiple tenants as long
as a single application is configured to access all tenants. Certificate-based
authentication is recommended in this scenario.

This input doesn't perform any transformation on the incoming messages, notably
no {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[Elastic Common Schema fields] are populated, and
some data is encoded as arrays of objects, which are difficult to query in
Elasticsearch. You probably want to use the
{filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-o365.html[Office 365 module] instead.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: o365audit
  application_id: my-application-id
  tenant_id: my-tenant-id
  client_secret: my-client-secret
----

Multi-tenancy and certificate-based authentication is also supported:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: o365audit
  application_id: my-application-id
  tenant_id:
    - tenant-id-A
    - tenant-id-B
    - tenant-id-C
  certificate: /path/to/cert.pem
  key: /path/to/private.pem
  # key_passphrase: "my key's password"
----

==== Configuration options

The `o365audit` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
===== `application_id`

The Application ID (also known as Client ID) of the Azure application to
authenticate as.

[float]
===== `tenant_id`

The tenant ID (also known as Directory ID) whose data is to be fetched. It's
also possible to specify a list of tenants IDs to fetch data from more than
one tenant.

[float]
===== `content_type`

List of content types to fetch. The default is to fetch all known content types:

- Audit.AzureActiveDirectory
- Audit.Exchange
- Audit.SharePoint
- Audit.General
- DLP.All

[float]
===== `client_secret`

The client secret used for authentication.

[float]
===== `certificate`

Path to the public certificate file used for certificate-based authentication.

[float]
===== `key`

Path to the certificate's private key file for certificate-based authentication.

[float]
===== `key_passphrase`

Passphrase used to decrypt the private key.

[float]
===== `api.authentication_endpoint`

The authentication endpoint used to authorize the Azure app. This is
`https://login.microsoftonline.com/` by default, and can be changed to access
alternative endpoints.

===== `api.resource`

The API resource to retrieve information from. This is
`https://manage.office.com` by default, and can be changed to access alternative
endpoints.

===== `api.max_retention`

The maximum data retention period to support. `168h` by default. {beatname_uc}
will fetch all retained data for a tenant when run for the first time.

===== `api.poll_interval`

The interval to wait before polling the API server for new events. Default `3m`.

===== `api.max_requests_per_minute`

The maximum number of requests to perform per minute, for each tenant. The
default is `2000`, as this is the server-side limit per tenant.

===== `api.max_query_size`

The maximum time window that API allows in a single query. Defaults to `24h`
to match Microsoft's documented limit.

===== `api.preserve_original_event`

Controls whether the original o365 audit object will be kept in `event.original`
 or not. Defaults to `false`.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
