x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-aws-s3.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:libbeat-xpack-dir: ../../../../x-pack/libbeat

:type: s3

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== s3 input

++++
<titleabbrev>s3</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

Use the `s3` input to retrieve logs from S3 objects that are pointed by messages
from specific SQS queues. This input can, for example, be used to receive S3
server access logs to monitor detailed records for the requests that are made to
a bucket.

When processing a s3 object which pointed by a sqs message, if half of the set
visibility timeout passed and the processing is still ongoing, then the
visibility timeout of that sqs message will be reset to make sure the message
does not go back to the queue in the middle of the processing. If there are
errors happening during the processing of the s3 object, then the process will be
stopped and the sqs message will be returned back to the queue.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: s3
  queue_url: https://sqs.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/1234/test-s3-queue
  access_key_id: my-access-key
  secret_access_key: my-secret-access-key
----

The `s3` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
==== `queue_url`

URL of the AWS SQS queue that messages will be received from. Required.

[float]
==== `visibility_timeout`

The duration (in seconds) that the received messages are hidden from subsequent
retrieve requests after being retrieved by a ReceiveMessage request.
This value needs to be a lot bigger than filebeat collection frequency so
if it took too long to read the s3 log, this sqs message will not be reprocessed.
The default visibility timeout for a message is 300 seconds. The minimum
is 0 seconds. The maximum is 12 hours.

[float]
==== `aws credentials`

In order to make AWS API calls, `s3` input requires AWS credentials.Please see
 <<aws-credentials-config,AWS credentials options>> for more details.

[float]
=== AWS Permissions
Specific AWS permissions are required for IAM user to access SQS and S3:
----
s3:GetObject
sqs:ReceiveMessage
sqs:ChangeMessageVisibility
sqs:DeleteMessage
----

[float]
=== S3 and SQS setup
Enable bucket notification: any new object creation in S3 bucket will also
create a notification through SQS. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html#step1-create-sqs-queue-for-notification[create-sqs-queue-for-notification]
for more details.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

[id="aws-credentials-config"]
include::{libbeat-xpack-dir}/docs/aws-credentials-config.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

Document parallel processing for s3 input

x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-aws-s3.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:libbeat-xpack-dir: ../../../../x-pack/libbeat

:type: s3

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== s3 input

++++
<titleabbrev>s3</titleabbrev>
++++

beta[]

Use the `s3` input to retrieve logs from S3 objects that are pointed by messages
from specific SQS queues. This input can, for example, be used to receive S3
server access logs to monitor detailed records for the requests that are made to
a bucket.

When processing a s3 object which pointed by a sqs message, if half of the set
visibility timeout passed and the processing is still ongoing, then the
visibility timeout of that sqs message will be reset to make sure the message
does not go back to the queue in the middle of the processing. If there are
errors happening during the processing of the s3 object, then the process will be
stopped and the sqs message will be returned back to the queue.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: s3
  queue_url: https://sqs.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/1234/test-s3-queue
  access_key_id: my-access-key
  secret_access_key: my-secret-access-key
----

The `s3` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
==== `queue_url`

URL of the AWS SQS queue that messages will be received from. Required.

[float]
==== `visibility_timeout`

The duration (in seconds) that the received messages are hidden from subsequent
retrieve requests after being retrieved by a ReceiveMessage request.
This value needs to be a lot bigger than filebeat collection frequency so
if it took too long to read the s3 log, this sqs message will not be reprocessed.
The default visibility timeout for a message is 300 seconds. The minimum
is 0 seconds. The maximum is 12 hours.

[float]
==== `aws credentials`

In order to make AWS API calls, `s3` input requires AWS credentials.Please see
 <<aws-credentials-config,AWS credentials options>> for more details.

[float]
=== AWS Permissions
Specific AWS permissions are required for IAM user to access SQS and S3:
----
s3:GetObject
sqs:ReceiveMessage
sqs:ChangeMessageVisibility
sqs:DeleteMessage
----

[float]
=== S3 and SQS setup
Enable bucket notification: any new object creation in S3 bucket will also
create a notification through SQS. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html#step1-create-sqs-queue-for-notification[create-sqs-queue-for-notification]
for more details.

[float]
=== Parallel Processing
The usage of SQS ensures that each message in the queue is processed only once
even with multiple Filebeat running in parallel. To prevent other consumers, which
is Filebeat in this case, from processing the message again, visibility timeout
can be set to prevent other consumers from receiving and processing the same
message again.

The visibility timeout begins when SQS returns a message to Filebeat.
During this time, Filebeat processes and deletes the message. However, if
Filebeat fails before deleting the message and your system doesn't call the
DeleteMessage action for that message before the visibility timeout expires, the
message becomes visible to other Filebeats and the message is received again.
By default, visibility timeout is set to 5 minutes for s3 input in Filebeat.
5-minute is high enough for SQS message to be read and related s3 log files to
be processed.

A basic test was done with three Filebeats running in parallel pointing to the same
SQS queue in AWS. There were 1000 messages available in the queue and each message
notifies a new S3 log has been generated. These S3 logs are simple .txt files and
each contains 10 log lines. With three Filebeats, the messages were processed
evenly without duplicating or missing messages. Test result looks like:

|=======
| Filebeat #  | Total # of Events | Total # of log files
| 1 |  3350 |  335
| 2| 3350 |  335
| 3| 3300 |  330
|=======

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../../../../filebeat/docs/inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

[id="aws-credentials-config"]
include::{libbeat-xpack-dir}/docs/aws-credentials-config.asciidoc[]

:type!:
