packetbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, before:

[[packetbeat-getting-started]]
== Getting started with Packetbeat

The best way to understand the value of a network packet analytics system like
Packetbeat is to try it on your own traffic.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<packetbeat-installation>>
* <<packetbeat-configuration>>
* <<packetbeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<packetbeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[[packetbeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Packetbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo apt-get install libpcap0.8
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i packetbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo yum install libpcap
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi packetbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf packetbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-brew-install.asciidoc[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf packetbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download and install WinPcap from this
http://www.winpcap.org/install/default.htm[page]. WinPcap is a library that uses
a driver to enable packet capturing.

. Download the Packetbeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the `packetbeat-<version>-windows` directory to `Packetbeat`.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Packetbeat as a Windows service:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Packetbeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> .\install-service-packetbeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For example: `PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-packetbeat.ps1`.

endif::[]

Before starting Packetbeat, you should look at the configuration options in the
configuration file, for example `C:\Program Files\Packetbeat\packetbeat.yml` or `/etc/packetbeat/packetbeat.yml`. For
more information about these options, see <<configuring-howto-packetbeat>>.

[[packetbeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Packetbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

To configure Packetbeat:

. Select the network interface from which to capture the traffic.

* On
Linux: Packetbeat supports capturing all messages sent or received by the
server on which Packetbeat is installed. For this, use `any` as the device:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.interfaces.device: any
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* On OS X, capturing from the `any` device doesn't work. You would
typically use either `lo0` or `en0` depending on which traffic you want to
capture.

* On Windows, run the following command to list the available network interfaces:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> .\packetbeat.exe devices

0: \Device\NPF_{113535AD-934A-452E-8D5F-3004797DE286} (Intel(R) PRO/1000 MT Desktop Adapter)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
+
In this example, there's only one network card, with the index 0, installed on the system. If
there are multiple network cards, remember the index of the device you want to use for
capturing the traffic.
+
Modify the `device` line to point to the index of the device:
+
[source,yml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.interfaces.device: 0
----------------------------------------------------------------------

. In the protocols section, configure the ports on which Packetbeat can find each
protocol. If you use any non-standard ports, add them here. Otherwise, the
default values should do just fine.
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.protocols:

- type: dhcpv4
  ports: [67, 68]

- type: dns
  ports: [53]

- type: http
  ports: [80, 8080, 8081, 5000, 8002]

- type: memcache
  ports: [11211]

- type: mysql
  ports: [3306,3307]

- type: pgsql
  ports: [5432]

- type: redis
  ports: [6379]

- type: thrift
  ports: [9090]

- type: mongodb
  ports: [27017]

- type: cassandra
  ports: [9042]

- type: tls
  ports: [443, 993, 995, 5223, 8443, 8883, 9243]

----------------------------------------------------------------------
+
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[[packetbeat-template]]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[[packetbeat-starting]]
=== Step 5: Start Packetbeat

Run Packetbeat by issuing the command that is appropriate for your platform. If
you are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Packetbeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Packetbeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker>>.

*mac and linux:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root packetbeat.yml <1>
sudo ./packetbeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Packetbeat as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file, or run Packetbeat with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{beats-ref}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]in
the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> Start-Service packetbeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default the log files are stored in `C:\ProgramData\packetbeat\Logs`.

==== Test the Packetbeat installation

Packetbeat is now ready to capture data from your network traffic. You can test
that it works by creating a simple HTTP request. For example:

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl http://www.elastic.co/ > /dev/null
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Now verify that the data is present in Elasticsearch by issuing the following command:

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/packetbeat-*/_search?pretty'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that you replace `localhost:9200` with the address of your Elasticsearch
instance. The command should return data about the HTTP transaction you just created.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to get application performance insights
from packet data, we have created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded
the dashboards earlier when you ran the `setup` command.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

TIP: To populate the client locations map in the overview dashboard, follow the
steps described in <<{beatname_lc}-geoip>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/packetbeat-statistics.png[Packetbeat statistics]

Commit message:

[DOCS][7.1] Backport 12481 and 12537 (#12679)
* [DOCS] Show Npcap in packetbeat installation steps (#12481)

* [DOCS] Show Npcap in packetbeat installation steps

* Remove Winpcap mentions from FAQ

* [DOCS] Soften the Npcap requirement (#12537)

packetbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, after:

[[packetbeat-getting-started]]
== Getting started with Packetbeat

The best way to understand the value of a network packet analytics system like
Packetbeat is to try it on your own traffic.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<packetbeat-installation>>
* <<packetbeat-configuration>>
* <<packetbeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<packetbeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[[packetbeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Packetbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo apt-get install libpcap0.8
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i packetbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo yum install libpcap
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi packetbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf packetbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-brew-install.asciidoc[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat/packetbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf packetbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download and install a packet sniffing library,
such as https://nmap.org/npcap/[Npcap], that implements the
https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap[libpcap] interfaces.
+
If you use Npcap, make sure you install it in WinPcap API-compatible mode. If
you plan to capture traffic from the loopback device (127.0.0.1 traffic), also
select the option to support loopback traffic. 

. Download the Packetbeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/packetbeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the `packetbeat-<version>-windows` directory to `Packetbeat`.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Packetbeat as a Windows service:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Packetbeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> .\install-service-packetbeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For example: `PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-packetbeat.ps1`.

endif::[]

Before starting Packetbeat, you should look at the configuration options in the
configuration file, for example `C:\Program Files\Packetbeat\packetbeat.yml` or `/etc/packetbeat/packetbeat.yml`. For
more information about these options, see <<configuring-howto-packetbeat>>.

[[packetbeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Packetbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

To configure Packetbeat:

. Select the network interface from which to capture the traffic.

* On
Linux: Packetbeat supports capturing all messages sent or received by the
server on which Packetbeat is installed. For this, use `any` as the device:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.interfaces.device: any
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* On OS X, capturing from the `any` device doesn't work. You would
typically use either `lo0` or `en0` depending on which traffic you want to
capture.

* On Windows, run the following command to list the available network interfaces:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> .\packetbeat.exe devices

0: \Device\NPF_{113535AD-934A-452E-8D5F-3004797DE286} (Intel(R) PRO/1000 MT Desktop Adapter)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
+
In this example, there's only one network card, with the index 0, installed on the system. If
there are multiple network cards, remember the index of the device you want to use for
capturing the traffic.
+
Modify the `device` line to point to the index of the device:
+
[source,yml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.interfaces.device: 0
----------------------------------------------------------------------

. In the protocols section, configure the ports on which Packetbeat can find each
protocol. If you use any non-standard ports, add them here. Otherwise, the
default values should do just fine.
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
packetbeat.protocols:

- type: dhcpv4
  ports: [67, 68]

- type: dns
  ports: [53]

- type: http
  ports: [80, 8080, 8081, 5000, 8002]

- type: memcache
  ports: [11211]

- type: mysql
  ports: [3306,3307]

- type: pgsql
  ports: [5432]

- type: redis
  ports: [6379]

- type: thrift
  ports: [9090]

- type: mongodb
  ports: [27017]

- type: cassandra
  ports: [9042]

- type: tls
  ports: [443, 993, 995, 5223, 8443, 8883, 9243]

----------------------------------------------------------------------
+
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[[packetbeat-template]]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

:requires-sudo: yes
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[[packetbeat-starting]]
=== Step 5: Start Packetbeat

Run Packetbeat by issuing the command that is appropriate for your platform. If
you are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Packetbeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Packetbeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker>>.

*mac and linux:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root packetbeat.yml <1>
sudo ./packetbeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Packetbeat as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file, or run Packetbeat with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{beats-ref}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]in
the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Packetbeat> Start-Service packetbeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default the log files are stored in `C:\ProgramData\packetbeat\Logs`.

==== Test the Packetbeat installation

Packetbeat is now ready to capture data from your network traffic. You can test
that it works by creating a simple HTTP request. For example:

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl http://www.elastic.co/ > /dev/null
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Now verify that the data is present in Elasticsearch by issuing the following command:

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/packetbeat-*/_search?pretty'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that you replace `localhost:9200` with the address of your Elasticsearch
instance. The command should return data about the HTTP transaction you just created.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to get application performance insights
from packet data, we have created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded
the dashboards earlier when you ran the `setup` command.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

TIP: To populate the client locations map in the overview dashboard, follow the
steps described in <<{beatname_lc}-geoip>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/packetbeat-statistics.png[Packetbeat statistics]
