metricbeat/module/redis/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

This module periodically fetches metrics from http://redis.io/[Redis] servers.

The defaut metricsets are `info` and `keyspace`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The Redis module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
redis://[:password@]host[:port][/db-number][?option=value]
redis://HOST[:PORT][?password=PASSWORD[&db=DATABASE]]
*`password`*:: The password to authenticate, by default it's empty.
*`idle_timeout`*:: The duration to remain idle before closing connections. If
  the value is zero, then idle connections are not closed. The default value
  is 2 times the module period to allow a connection to be reused across
  fetches. The `idle_timeout` should be set to less than the server's connection
  timeout.
*`network`*:: The network type to be used for the Redis connection. The default value is
  `tcp`.
*`maxconn`*:: The maximum number of concurrent connections to Redis. The default value
  is 10.


[float]
=== Compatibility

The Redis metricsets were tested with Redis 3.2.12, 4.0.11 and 5.0-rc4,  and are expected
to work with all versions >= 3.0.

Commit message:

Cherry-pick #16482 to 7.x: [Metricbeat] Redis Enterprise: add "node" and "proxy" metricsets (#16751)
* [Metricbeat] Add new module for Redis Enterprise (#16482)

Add metricsets: node, proxy

(cherry picked from commit 96bebe4c05637a9ef2e07e21e24b8c6cfed3c3e6)

metricbeat/module/redis/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

This module periodically fetches metrics from http://redis.io/[Redis] servers.

The defaut metricsets are `info` and `keyspace`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

The Redis module has these additional config options:

*`hosts`*:: URLs that are used to connect to Redis.
URL format:
redis://[:password@]host[:port][/db-number][?option=value]
redis://HOST[:PORT][?password=PASSWORD[&db=DATABASE]]
*`password`*:: The password to authenticate, by default it's empty.
*`idle_timeout`*:: The duration to remain idle before closing connections. If
  the value is zero, then idle connections are not closed. The default value
  is 2 times the module period to allow a connection to be reused across
  fetches. The `idle_timeout` should be set to less than the server's connection
  timeout.
*`network`*:: The network type to be used for the Redis connection. The default value is
  `tcp`.
*`maxconn`*:: The maximum number of concurrent connections to Redis. The default value
  is 10.


[float]
=== Compatibility

The redis metricsets `info`, `key` and `keyspace` are compatible with all distributions of Redis (OSS and enterprise).
They were tested with Redis 3.2.12, 4.0.11 and 5.0-rc4, and are expected to work with all versions >= 3.0.
