filebeat/docs/inputs/input-syslog.asciidoc, before:

:type: syslog

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Syslog input

++++
<titleabbrev>Syslog</titleabbrev>
++++

The `syslog` input reads Syslog events as specified by RFC 3164 and RFC 5424,
over TCP, UDP, or a Unix stream socket.

Example configurations:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: rfc3164
  protocol.udp:
    host: "localhost:9000"
----

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: rfc5424
  protocol.tcp:
    host: "localhost:9000"
----

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: auto
  protocol.unix:
    path: "/path/to/syslog.sock"
----

==== Configuration options

The `syslog` input configuration includes format, protocol specific options, and
the <<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

===== `format`

The syslog variant to use, `rfc3164` or `rfc5424`. To automatically detect the
format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is
`rfc3164`.

===== `timezone`

IANA time zone name (e.g. `America/New_York`) or fixed time offset (e.g.
`+0200`) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain a time zone.
`Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to
`Local`.

===== Protocol `udp`:

include::../inputs/input-common-udp-options.asciidoc[]

===== Protocol `tcp`:

include::../inputs/input-common-tcp-options.asciidoc[]

===== Protocol `unix`:

include::../inputs/input-common-unix-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

[filebeat] Deprecate syslog input
- The syslog input has been deprecated in favor of the syslog processor.

filebeat/docs/inputs/input-syslog.asciidoc, after:

:type: syslog

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Syslog input

deprecated:[8.14.0]

The syslog input is deprecated. Please use the <<syslog, `syslog`>> processor for processing syslog messages.

++++
<titleabbrev>Syslog</titleabbrev>
++++

The `syslog` input reads Syslog events as specified by RFC 3164 and RFC 5424,
over TCP, UDP, or a Unix stream socket.

Example configurations:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: rfc3164
  protocol.udp:
    host: "localhost:9000"
----

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: rfc5424
  protocol.tcp:
    host: "localhost:9000"
----

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: syslog
  format: auto
  protocol.unix:
    path: "/path/to/syslog.sock"
----

==== Configuration options

The `syslog` input configuration includes format, protocol specific options, and
the <<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

===== `format`

The syslog variant to use, `rfc3164` or `rfc5424`. To automatically detect the
format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is
`rfc3164`.

===== `timezone`

IANA time zone name (e.g. `America/New_York`) or fixed time offset (e.g.
`+0200`) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain a time zone.
`Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to
`Local`.

===== Protocol `udp`:

include::../inputs/input-common-udp-options.asciidoc[]

===== Protocol `tcp`:

include::../inputs/input-common-tcp-options.asciidoc[]

===== Protocol `unix`:

include::../inputs/input-common-unix-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
