filebeat/docs/inputs/input-kafka.asciidoc, before:

:type: kafka

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Kafka input

++++
<titleabbrev>Kafka</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `kafka` input to read from topics in a Kafka cluster.

To configure this input, specify a list of one or more <<hosts,`hosts`>> in the
cluster to bootstrap the connection with, a list of <<topics,`topics`>> to
track, and a <<groupid,`group_id`>> for the connection.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: kafka
  hosts:
    - kafka-broker-1:9092
    - kafka-broker-2:9092
  topics: ["my-topic"]
  group_id: "filebeat"

----

The following example shows how to use the `kafka` input to ingest data from
Microsoft Azure Event Hubs that have Kafka compatibility enabled:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: kafka
  hosts: ["<your event hub namespace>.servicebus.windows.net:9093"]
  topics: ["<your event hub instance>"]
  group_id: "<your consumer group>"

  username: "$ConnectionString"
  password: "<your connection string>"
  ssl.enabled: true

----

For more details on the mapping between Kafka and Event Hubs configuration
parameters, see the
link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-for-kafka-ecosystem-overview[Azure documentation].

[[kafka-input-compatibility]]
==== Compatibility

This input works with all Kafka versions in between 0.11 and 2.8.0. Older versions
might work as well, but are not supported.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options"]
==== Configuration options

The `kafka` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
[[kafka-hosts]]
===== `hosts`

A list of Kafka bootstrapping hosts (brokers) for this cluster.

[float]
[[topics]]
===== `topics`

A list of topics to read from.

[float]
[[groupid]]
===== `group_id`

The Kafka consumer group id.

[float]
===== `client_id`

The Kafka client id (optional).

[float]
===== `version`

The version of the Kafka protocol to use (defaults to `"1.0.0"`).

[float]
===== `initial_offset`

The initial offset to start reading, either "oldest" or "newest". Defaults to
"oldest".

===== `connect_backoff`

How long to wait before trying to reconnect to the kafka cluster after a
fatal error. Default is 30s.

===== `consume_backoff`

How long to wait before retrying a failed read. Default is 2s.

===== `max_wait_time`

How long to wait for the minimum number of input bytes while reading. Default
is 250ms.

===== `wait_close`

When shutting down, how long to wait for in-flight messages to be delivered
and acknowledged.

===== `isolation_level`

This configures the Kafka group isolation level:

- `"read_uncommitted"` returns _all_ messages in the message channel.
- `"read_committed"` hides messages that are part of an aborted transaction.

The default is `"read_uncommitted"`.

===== `fetch`

Kafka fetch settings:

*`min`*:: The minimum number of bytes to wait for. Defaults to 1.

*`default`*:: The default number of bytes to read per request. Defaults to 1MB.

*`max`*:: The maximum number of bytes to read per request. Defaults to 0
(no limit).

===== `expand_event_list_from_field`

If the fileset using this input expects to receive multiple messages bundled under a specific field then the config option `expand_event_list_from_field` value can be assigned the name of the field.
For example in the case of azure filesets the events are found under the json object "records".

["source","json"]
----
{
"records": [ {event1}, {event2}]
}
----

This setting will be able to split the messages under the group value ('records') into separate events.

===== `rebalance`

Kafka rebalance settings:

*`strategy`*:: Either `"range"` or `"roundrobin"`. Defaults to `"range"`.

*`timeout`*:: How long to wait for an attempted rebalance. Defaults to 60s.

*`max_retries`*:: How many times to retry if rebalancing fails. Defaults to 4.

*`retry_backoff`*:: How long to wait after an unsuccessful rebalance attempt.
Defaults to 2s.

===== `sasl.mechanism`

The SASL mechanism to use when connecting to Kafka. It can be one of:

* `PLAIN` for SASL/PLAIN.
* `SCRAM-SHA-256` for SCRAM-SHA-256.
* `SCRAM-SHA-512` for SCRAM-SHA-512.

If `sasl.mechanism` is not set, `PLAIN` is used if `username` and `password`
are provided. Otherwise, SASL authentication is disabled.

To use `GSSAPI` mechanism to authenticate with Kerberos, you must leave this
field empty, and use the <<kerberos-option-kafka>> options.

===== `kerberos`

beta[]

Configuration options for Kerberos authentication.

See <<configuration-kerberos>> for more information.

[float]
===== `parsers`

This option expects a list of parsers that the payload has to go through.

Available parsers:

* `ndjson`
* `multiline`

[float]
===== `ndjson`

These options make it possible for {beatname_uc} to decode the payload as
JSON messages.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
- ndjson:
  keys_under_root: true
  add_error_key: true
  message_key: log
----

*`keys_under_root`*:: By default, the decoded JSON is placed under a "json" key
in the output document. If you enable this setting, the keys are copied top
level in the output document. The default is false.

*`overwrite_keys`*:: If `keys_under_root` and this setting are enabled, then the
values from the decoded JSON object overwrite the fields that {beatname_uc}
normally adds (type, source, offset, etc.) in case of conflicts.

*`expand_keys`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} will recursively
de-dot keys in the decoded JSON, and expand them into a hierarchical object
structure. For example, `{"a.b.c": 123}` would be expanded into `{"a":{"b":{"c":123}}}`.
This setting should be enabled when the input is produced by an
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging[ECS logger].

*`add_error_key`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} adds an
"error.message" and "error.type: json" key in case of JSON unmarshalling errors
or when a `message_key` is defined in the configuration but cannot be used.

*`message_key`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies a JSON key on
which to apply the line filtering and multiline settings. If specified the key
must be at the top level in the JSON object and the value associated with the
key must be a string, otherwise no filtering or multiline aggregation will
occur.

*`document_id`*:: Option configuration setting that specifies the JSON key to
set the document id. If configured, the field will be removed from the original
JSON document and stored in `@metadata._id`

*`ignore_decoding_error`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies if
JSON decoding errors should be logged or not. If set to true, errors will not
be logged. The default is false.

[float]
===== `multiline`

Options that control how {beatname_uc} deals with log messages that span
multiple lines. See <<multiline-examples>> for more information about
configuring multiline options.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

Adjust documentation for ndjson parser to mention target

filebeat/docs/inputs/input-kafka.asciidoc, after:

:type: kafka

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Kafka input

++++
<titleabbrev>Kafka</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `kafka` input to read from topics in a Kafka cluster.

To configure this input, specify a list of one or more <<hosts,`hosts`>> in the
cluster to bootstrap the connection with, a list of <<topics,`topics`>> to
track, and a <<groupid,`group_id`>> for the connection.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: kafka
  hosts:
    - kafka-broker-1:9092
    - kafka-broker-2:9092
  topics: ["my-topic"]
  group_id: "filebeat"

----

The following example shows how to use the `kafka` input to ingest data from
Microsoft Azure Event Hubs that have Kafka compatibility enabled:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: kafka
  hosts: ["<your event hub namespace>.servicebus.windows.net:9093"]
  topics: ["<your event hub instance>"]
  group_id: "<your consumer group>"

  username: "$ConnectionString"
  password: "<your connection string>"
  ssl.enabled: true

----

For more details on the mapping between Kafka and Event Hubs configuration
parameters, see the
link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-for-kafka-ecosystem-overview[Azure documentation].

[[kafka-input-compatibility]]
==== Compatibility

This input works with all Kafka versions in between 0.11 and 2.8.0. Older versions
might work as well, but are not supported.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options"]
==== Configuration options

The `kafka` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
[[kafka-hosts]]
===== `hosts`

A list of Kafka bootstrapping hosts (brokers) for this cluster.

[float]
[[topics]]
===== `topics`

A list of topics to read from.

[float]
[[groupid]]
===== `group_id`

The Kafka consumer group id.

[float]
===== `client_id`

The Kafka client id (optional).

[float]
===== `version`

The version of the Kafka protocol to use (defaults to `"1.0.0"`).

[float]
===== `initial_offset`

The initial offset to start reading, either "oldest" or "newest". Defaults to
"oldest".

===== `connect_backoff`

How long to wait before trying to reconnect to the kafka cluster after a
fatal error. Default is 30s.

===== `consume_backoff`

How long to wait before retrying a failed read. Default is 2s.

===== `max_wait_time`

How long to wait for the minimum number of input bytes while reading. Default
is 250ms.

===== `wait_close`

When shutting down, how long to wait for in-flight messages to be delivered
and acknowledged.

===== `isolation_level`

This configures the Kafka group isolation level:

- `"read_uncommitted"` returns _all_ messages in the message channel.
- `"read_committed"` hides messages that are part of an aborted transaction.

The default is `"read_uncommitted"`.

===== `fetch`

Kafka fetch settings:

*`min`*:: The minimum number of bytes to wait for. Defaults to 1.

*`default`*:: The default number of bytes to read per request. Defaults to 1MB.

*`max`*:: The maximum number of bytes to read per request. Defaults to 0
(no limit).

===== `expand_event_list_from_field`

If the fileset using this input expects to receive multiple messages bundled under a specific field then the config option `expand_event_list_from_field` value can be assigned the name of the field.
For example in the case of azure filesets the events are found under the json object "records".

["source","json"]
----
{
"records": [ {event1}, {event2}]
}
----

This setting will be able to split the messages under the group value ('records') into separate events.

===== `rebalance`

Kafka rebalance settings:

*`strategy`*:: Either `"range"` or `"roundrobin"`. Defaults to `"range"`.

*`timeout`*:: How long to wait for an attempted rebalance. Defaults to 60s.

*`max_retries`*:: How many times to retry if rebalancing fails. Defaults to 4.

*`retry_backoff`*:: How long to wait after an unsuccessful rebalance attempt.
Defaults to 2s.

===== `sasl.mechanism`

The SASL mechanism to use when connecting to Kafka. It can be one of:

* `PLAIN` for SASL/PLAIN.
* `SCRAM-SHA-256` for SCRAM-SHA-256.
* `SCRAM-SHA-512` for SCRAM-SHA-512.

If `sasl.mechanism` is not set, `PLAIN` is used if `username` and `password`
are provided. Otherwise, SASL authentication is disabled.

To use `GSSAPI` mechanism to authenticate with Kerberos, you must leave this
field empty, and use the <<kerberos-option-kafka>> options.

===== `kerberos`

beta[]

Configuration options for Kerberos authentication.

See <<configuration-kerberos>> for more information.

[float]
===== `parsers`

This option expects a list of parsers that the payload has to go through.

Available parsers:

* `ndjson`
* `multiline`

[float]
===== `ndjson`

These options make it possible for {beatname_uc} to decode the payload as
JSON messages.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
- ndjson:
  target: ""
  add_error_key: true
  message_key: log
----

*`target`*:: The name of the new field the parsed key value pairs should go. If you
leave it empty, the new keys will go under root.

*`overwrite_keys`*:: Values from the decoded JSON object overwrite the fields that {beatname_uc}
normally adds (type, source, offset, etc.) in case of conflicts. Disable it if you want
to keep previously added values.

*`expand_keys`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} will recursively
de-dot keys in the decoded JSON, and expand them into a hierarchical object
structure. For example, `{"a.b.c": 123}` would be expanded into `{"a":{"b":{"c":123}}}`.
This setting should be enabled when the input is produced by an
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging[ECS logger].

*`add_error_key`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} adds an
"error.message" and "error.type: json" key in case of JSON unmarshalling errors
or when a `message_key` is defined in the configuration but cannot be used.

*`message_key`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies a JSON key on
which to apply the line filtering and multiline settings. If specified the key
must be at the top level in the JSON object and the value associated with the
key must be a string, otherwise no filtering or multiline aggregation will
occur.

*`document_id`*:: Option configuration setting that specifies the JSON key to
set the document id. If configured, the field will be removed from the original
JSON document and stored in `@metadata._id`

*`ignore_decoding_error`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies if
JSON decoding errors should be logged or not. If set to true, errors will not
be logged. The default is false.

[float]
===== `multiline`

Options that control how {beatname_uc} deals with log messages that span
multiple lines. See <<multiline-examples>> for more information about
configuring multiline options.

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
