filebeat/docs/inputs/input-filestream-reader-options.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by Filebeat inputs that use the input
//// but do not process files (the options for managing files
//// on disk are not relevant)
//// If you add IDs to sections, make sure you use attributes to create
//// unique IDs for each input that includes this file. Use the format:
//// [id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-option-name"]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[float]
===== `encoding`

The file encoding to use for reading data that contains international
characters. See the encoding names http://www.w3.org/TR/encoding/[recommended by
the W3C for use in HTML5].

Valid encodings:

	* `plain`: plain ASCII encoding
	* `utf-8` or `utf8`: UTF-8 encoding
	* `gbk`: simplified Chinese charaters
	* `iso8859-6e`: ISO8859-6E, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-6i`: ISO8859-6I, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-8e`: ISO8859-8E, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-8i`: ISO8859-8I, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-1`: ISO8859-1, Latin-1
	* `iso8859-2`: ISO8859-2, Latin-2
	* `iso8859-3`: ISO8859-3, Latin-3
	* `iso8859-4`: ISO8859-4, Latin-4
	* `iso8859-5`: ISO8859-5, Latin/Cyrillic
	* `iso8859-6`: ISO8859-6, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-7`: ISO8859-7, Latin/Greek
	* `iso8859-8`: ISO8859-8, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-9`: ISO8859-9, Latin-5
	* `iso8859-10`: ISO8859-10, Latin-6
	* `iso8859-13`: ISO8859-13, Latin-7
	* `iso8859-14`: ISO8859-14, Latin-8
	* `iso8859-15`: ISO8859-15, Latin-9
	* `iso8859-16`: ISO8859-16, Latin-10
	* `cp437`: IBM CodePage 437
	* `cp850`: IBM CodePage 850
	* `cp852`: IBM CodePage 852
	* `cp855`: IBM CodePage 855
	* `cp858`: IBM CodePage 858
	* `cp860`: IBM CodePage 860
	* `cp862`: IBM CodePage 862
	* `cp863`: IBM CodePage 863
	* `cp865`: IBM CodePage 865
	* `cp866`: IBM CodePage 866
	* `ebcdic-037`: IBM CodePage 037
	* `ebcdic-1040`: IBM CodePage 1140
	* `ebcdic-1047`: IBM CodePage 1047
	* `koi8r`: KOI8-R, Russian (Cyrillic)
	* `koi8u`: KOI8-U, Ukranian (Cyrillic)
	* `macintosh`: Macintosh encoding
	* `macintosh-cyrillic`: Macintosh Cyrillic encoding
	* `windows1250`: Windows1250, Central and Eastern European
	* `windows1251`: Windows1251, Russian, Serbian (Cyrillic)
	* `windows1252`: Windows1252, Legacy
	* `windows1253`: Windows1253, Modern Greek
	* `windows1254`: Windows1254, Turkish
	* `windows1255`: Windows1255, Hebrew
	* `windows1256`: Windows1256, Arabic
	* `windows1257`: Windows1257, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian
	* `windows1258`: Windows1258, Vietnamese
	* `windows874`:  Windows874, ISO/IEC 8859-11, Latin/Thai
	* `utf-16-bom`: UTF-16 with required BOM
	* `utf-16be-bom`: big endian UTF-16 with required BOM
	* `utf-16le-bom`: little endian UTF-16 with required BOM

The `plain` encoding is special, because it does not validate or transform any input.

[float]
[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-exclude-lines"]
===== `exclude_lines`

A list of regular expressions to match the lines that you want {beatname_uc} to
exclude. {beatname_uc} drops any lines that match a regular expression in the
list. By default, no lines are dropped. Empty lines are ignored.

The following example configures {beatname_uc} to drop any lines that start with
`DBG`.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  exclude_lines: ['^DBG']
----

See <<regexp-support>> for a list of supported regexp patterns.

[float]
[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-include-lines"]
===== `include_lines`

A list of regular expressions to match the lines that you want {beatname_uc} to
include. {beatname_uc} exports only the lines that match a regular expression in
the list. By default, all lines are exported. Empty lines are ignored.

The following example configures {beatname_uc} to export any lines that start
with `ERR` or `WARN`:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  include_lines: ['^ERR', '^WARN']
----

NOTE: If both `include_lines` and `exclude_lines` are defined, {beatname_uc}
executes `include_lines` first and then executes `exclude_lines`. The order in
which the two options are defined doesn't matter. The `include_lines` option
will always be executed before the `exclude_lines` option, even if
`exclude_lines` appears before `include_lines` in the config file.

The following example exports all log lines that contain `sometext`,
except for lines that begin with `DBG` (debug messages):

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  include_lines: ['sometext']
  exclude_lines: ['^DBG']
----

See <<regexp-support>> for a list of supported regexp patterns.

[float]
===== `buffer_size`

The size in bytes of the buffer that each harvester uses when fetching a file.
The default is 16384.

[float]
===== `message_max_bytes`

The maximum number of bytes that a single log message can have. All bytes after
`mesage_max_bytes` are discarded and not sent. The default is 10MB (10485760).

[float]
===== `parsers`

This option expects a list of parsers that the log line has to go through.

Available parsers:

* `multiline`
* `ndjson`
* `container`
* `syslog`

In this example, {beatname_uc} is reading multiline messages that consist of 3 lines
and are encapsulated in single-line JSON objects.
The multiline message is stored under the key `msg`.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  parsers:
    - ndjson:
        keys_under_root: true
        message_key: msg
    - multiline:
        type: count
        count_lines: 3
----

See the available parser settings in detail below.

[float]
===== `multiline`

Options that control how {beatname_uc} deals with log messages that span
multiple lines. See <<multiline-examples>> for more information about
configuring multiline options.

[float]
===== `ndjson`

These options make it possible for {beatname_uc} to decode logs structured as
JSON messages. {beatname_uc} processes the logs line by line, so the JSON
decoding only works if there is one JSON object per message.

The decoding happens before line filtering. You can combine JSON
decoding with filtering if you set the `message_key` option. This
can be helpful in situations where the application logs are wrapped in JSON
objects, like when using Docker.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
- ndjson:
    keys_under_root: true
    add_error_key: true
    message_key: log
----

*`keys_under_root`*:: By default, the decoded JSON is placed under a "json" key
in the output document. If you enable this setting, the keys are copied top
level in the output document. The default is false.

*`overwrite_keys`*:: If `keys_under_root` and this setting are enabled, then the
values from the decoded JSON object overwrite the fields that {beatname_uc}
normally adds (type, source, offset, etc.) in case of conflicts.

*`expand_keys`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} will recursively
de-dot keys in the decoded JSON, and expand them into a hierarchical object
structure. For example, `{"a.b.c": 123}` would be expanded into `{"a":{"b":{"c":123}}}`.
This setting should be enabled when the input is produced by an
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging[ECS logger].

*`add_error_key`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} adds an
"error.message" and "error.type: json" key in case of JSON unmarshalling errors
or when a `message_key` is defined in the configuration but cannot be used.

*`message_key`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies a JSON key on
which to apply the line filtering and multiline settings. If specified the key
must be at the top level in the JSON object and the value associated with the
key must be a string, otherwise no filtering or multiline aggregation will
occur.

*`document_id`*:: Option configuration setting that specifies the JSON key to
set the document id. If configured, the field will be removed from the original
JSON document and stored in `@metadata._id`

*`ignore_decoding_error`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies if
JSON decoding errors should be logged or not. If set to true, errors will not
be logged. The default is false.

[float]
===== `container`

Use the `container` parser to extract information from  containers log files.
It parses lines into common message lines, extracting timestamps too.

*`stream`*:: Reads from the specified streams only: `all`, `stdout` or `stderr`. The default
is `all`.

*`format`*:: Use the given format when parsing logs: `auto`, `docker` or `cri`. The
default is `auto`, it will automatically detect the format. To disable
autodetection set any of the other options.

The following snippet configures {beatname_uc} to read the `stdout` stream from
all containers under the default Kubernetes logs path:

[source,yaml]
----
  paths:
    - "/var/log/containers/*.log"
  parsers:
    - container:
        stream: stdout
----

[float]
===== `syslog`

The `syslog` parser parses RFC 3146 and/or RFC 5424 formatted syslog messages.

The supported configuration options are:

*`format`*:: (Optional) The syslog format to use, `rfc3164`, or `rfc5424`. To automatically
detect the format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is `auto`.

*`timezone`*:: (Optional) IANA time zone name(e.g. `America/New York`) or a
fixed time offset (e.g. +0200) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain
a time zone. `Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to `Local`.

*`log_errors`*:: (Optional) If `true` the parser will log syslog parsing errors. Defaults to `false`.

*`add_error_key`*:: (Optional) If this setting is enabled, the parser adds or appends to an
`error.message` key with the parsing error that was encountered. Defaults to `true`.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- syslog:
    format: rfc3164
    timezone: America/Chicago
    log_errors: true
    add_error_key: true
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Timestamps*

The RFC 3164 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* Local timestamp (`Mmm dd hh:mm:ss`):
** `Jan 23 14:09:01`
* RFC-3339*:
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

*Note*: The local timestamp (for example, `Jan 23 14:09:01`) that accompanies an
RFC 3164 message lacks year and time zone information. The time zone will be enriched
using the `timezone` configuration option, and the year will be enriched using the
{beatname_uc} system's local time (accounting for time zones). Because of this, it is possible
for messages to appear in the future. An example of when this might happen is logs
generated on December 31 2021 are ingested on January 1 2022. The logs would be enriched
with the year 2022 instead of 2021.

The RFC 5424 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* RFC-3339:
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

Formats with an asterisk (*) are a non-standard allowance.

Commit message:

Adjust documentation for ndjson parser to mention target

filebeat/docs/inputs/input-filestream-reader-options.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by Filebeat inputs that use the input
//// but do not process files (the options for managing files
//// on disk are not relevant)
//// If you add IDs to sections, make sure you use attributes to create
//// unique IDs for each input that includes this file. Use the format:
//// [id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-option-name"]
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[float]
===== `encoding`

The file encoding to use for reading data that contains international
characters. See the encoding names http://www.w3.org/TR/encoding/[recommended by
the W3C for use in HTML5].

Valid encodings:

	* `plain`: plain ASCII encoding
	* `utf-8` or `utf8`: UTF-8 encoding
	* `gbk`: simplified Chinese charaters
	* `iso8859-6e`: ISO8859-6E, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-6i`: ISO8859-6I, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-8e`: ISO8859-8E, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-8i`: ISO8859-8I, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-1`: ISO8859-1, Latin-1
	* `iso8859-2`: ISO8859-2, Latin-2
	* `iso8859-3`: ISO8859-3, Latin-3
	* `iso8859-4`: ISO8859-4, Latin-4
	* `iso8859-5`: ISO8859-5, Latin/Cyrillic
	* `iso8859-6`: ISO8859-6, Latin/Arabic
	* `iso8859-7`: ISO8859-7, Latin/Greek
	* `iso8859-8`: ISO8859-8, Latin/Hebrew
	* `iso8859-9`: ISO8859-9, Latin-5
	* `iso8859-10`: ISO8859-10, Latin-6
	* `iso8859-13`: ISO8859-13, Latin-7
	* `iso8859-14`: ISO8859-14, Latin-8
	* `iso8859-15`: ISO8859-15, Latin-9
	* `iso8859-16`: ISO8859-16, Latin-10
	* `cp437`: IBM CodePage 437
	* `cp850`: IBM CodePage 850
	* `cp852`: IBM CodePage 852
	* `cp855`: IBM CodePage 855
	* `cp858`: IBM CodePage 858
	* `cp860`: IBM CodePage 860
	* `cp862`: IBM CodePage 862
	* `cp863`: IBM CodePage 863
	* `cp865`: IBM CodePage 865
	* `cp866`: IBM CodePage 866
	* `ebcdic-037`: IBM CodePage 037
	* `ebcdic-1040`: IBM CodePage 1140
	* `ebcdic-1047`: IBM CodePage 1047
	* `koi8r`: KOI8-R, Russian (Cyrillic)
	* `koi8u`: KOI8-U, Ukranian (Cyrillic)
	* `macintosh`: Macintosh encoding
	* `macintosh-cyrillic`: Macintosh Cyrillic encoding
	* `windows1250`: Windows1250, Central and Eastern European
	* `windows1251`: Windows1251, Russian, Serbian (Cyrillic)
	* `windows1252`: Windows1252, Legacy
	* `windows1253`: Windows1253, Modern Greek
	* `windows1254`: Windows1254, Turkish
	* `windows1255`: Windows1255, Hebrew
	* `windows1256`: Windows1256, Arabic
	* `windows1257`: Windows1257, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian
	* `windows1258`: Windows1258, Vietnamese
	* `windows874`:  Windows874, ISO/IEC 8859-11, Latin/Thai
	* `utf-16-bom`: UTF-16 with required BOM
	* `utf-16be-bom`: big endian UTF-16 with required BOM
	* `utf-16le-bom`: little endian UTF-16 with required BOM

The `plain` encoding is special, because it does not validate or transform any input.

[float]
[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-exclude-lines"]
===== `exclude_lines`

A list of regular expressions to match the lines that you want {beatname_uc} to
exclude. {beatname_uc} drops any lines that match a regular expression in the
list. By default, no lines are dropped. Empty lines are ignored.

The following example configures {beatname_uc} to drop any lines that start with
`DBG`.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  exclude_lines: ['^DBG']
----

See <<regexp-support>> for a list of supported regexp patterns.

[float]
[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-include-lines"]
===== `include_lines`

A list of regular expressions to match the lines that you want {beatname_uc} to
include. {beatname_uc} exports only the lines that match a regular expression in
the list. By default, all lines are exported. Empty lines are ignored.

The following example configures {beatname_uc} to export any lines that start
with `ERR` or `WARN`:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  include_lines: ['^ERR', '^WARN']
----

NOTE: If both `include_lines` and `exclude_lines` are defined, {beatname_uc}
executes `include_lines` first and then executes `exclude_lines`. The order in
which the two options are defined doesn't matter. The `include_lines` option
will always be executed before the `exclude_lines` option, even if
`exclude_lines` appears before `include_lines` in the config file.

The following example exports all log lines that contain `sometext`,
except for lines that begin with `DBG` (debug messages):

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  include_lines: ['sometext']
  exclude_lines: ['^DBG']
----

See <<regexp-support>> for a list of supported regexp patterns.

[float]
===== `buffer_size`

The size in bytes of the buffer that each harvester uses when fetching a file.
The default is 16384.

[float]
===== `message_max_bytes`

The maximum number of bytes that a single log message can have. All bytes after
`mesage_max_bytes` are discarded and not sent. The default is 10MB (10485760).

[float]
===== `parsers`

This option expects a list of parsers that the log line has to go through.

Available parsers:

* `multiline`
* `ndjson`
* `container`
* `syslog`

In this example, {beatname_uc} is reading multiline messages that consist of 3 lines
and are encapsulated in single-line JSON objects.
The multiline message is stored under the key `msg`.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: {type}
  ...
  parsers:
    - ndjson:
        target: ""
        message_key: msg
    - multiline:
        type: count
        count_lines: 3
----

See the available parser settings in detail below.

[float]
===== `multiline`

Options that control how {beatname_uc} deals with log messages that span
multiple lines. See <<multiline-examples>> for more information about
configuring multiline options.

[float]
===== `ndjson`

These options make it possible for {beatname_uc} to decode logs structured as
JSON messages. {beatname_uc} processes the logs line by line, so the JSON
decoding only works if there is one JSON object per message.

The decoding happens before line filtering. You can combine JSON
decoding with filtering if you set the `message_key` option. This
can be helpful in situations where the application logs are wrapped in JSON
objects, like when using Docker.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
- ndjson:
    target: ""
    add_error_key: true
    message_key: log
----

*`target`*:: The name of the new field the parsed key value pairs should go. If you
leave it empty, the new keys will go under root.

*`overwrite_keys`*:: Values from the decoded JSON object overwrite the fields that {beatname_uc}
normally adds (type, source, offset, etc.) in case of conflicts. Disable it if you want
to keep previously added values.

*`expand_keys`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} will recursively
de-dot keys in the decoded JSON, and expand them into a hierarchical object
structure. For example, `{"a.b.c": 123}` would be expanded into `{"a":{"b":{"c":123}}}`.
This setting should be enabled when the input is produced by an
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging[ECS logger].

*`add_error_key`*:: If this setting is enabled, {beatname_uc} adds an
"error.message" and "error.type: json" key in case of JSON unmarshalling errors
or when a `message_key` is defined in the configuration but cannot be used.

*`message_key`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies a JSON key on
which to apply the line filtering and multiline settings. If specified the key
must be at the top level in the JSON object and the value associated with the
key must be a string, otherwise no filtering or multiline aggregation will
occur.

*`document_id`*:: Option configuration setting that specifies the JSON key to
set the document id. If configured, the field will be removed from the original
JSON document and stored in `@metadata._id`

*`ignore_decoding_error`*:: An optional configuration setting that specifies if
JSON decoding errors should be logged or not. If set to true, errors will not
be logged. The default is false.

[float]
===== `container`

Use the `container` parser to extract information from  containers log files.
It parses lines into common message lines, extracting timestamps too.

*`stream`*:: Reads from the specified streams only: `all`, `stdout` or `stderr`. The default
is `all`.

*`format`*:: Use the given format when parsing logs: `auto`, `docker` or `cri`. The
default is `auto`, it will automatically detect the format. To disable
autodetection set any of the other options.

The following snippet configures {beatname_uc} to read the `stdout` stream from
all containers under the default Kubernetes logs path:

[source,yaml]
----
  paths:
    - "/var/log/containers/*.log"
  parsers:
    - container:
        stream: stdout
----

[float]
===== `syslog`

The `syslog` parser parses RFC 3146 and/or RFC 5424 formatted syslog messages.

The supported configuration options are:

*`format`*:: (Optional) The syslog format to use, `rfc3164`, or `rfc5424`. To automatically
detect the format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is `auto`.

*`timezone`*:: (Optional) IANA time zone name(e.g. `America/New York`) or a
fixed time offset (e.g. +0200) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain
a time zone. `Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to `Local`.

*`log_errors`*:: (Optional) If `true` the parser will log syslog parsing errors. Defaults to `false`.

*`add_error_key`*:: (Optional) If this setting is enabled, the parser adds or appends to an
`error.message` key with the parsing error that was encountered. Defaults to `true`.

Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- syslog:
    format: rfc3164
    timezone: America/Chicago
    log_errors: true
    add_error_key: true
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Timestamps*

The RFC 3164 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* Local timestamp (`Mmm dd hh:mm:ss`):
** `Jan 23 14:09:01`
* RFC-3339*:
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

*Note*: The local timestamp (for example, `Jan 23 14:09:01`) that accompanies an
RFC 3164 message lacks year and time zone information. The time zone will be enriched
using the `timezone` configuration option, and the year will be enriched using the
{beatname_uc} system's local time (accounting for time zones). Because of this, it is possible
for messages to appear in the future. An example of when this might happen is logs
generated on December 31 2021 are ingested on January 1 2022. The logs would be enriched
with the year 2022 instead of 2021.

The RFC 5424 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* RFC-3339:
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

Formats with an asterisk (*) are a non-standard allowance.
