filebeat/module/osquery/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

:modulename: osquery
:has-dashboards: true

== Osquery module

The +{modulename}+ module collects and decodes the result logs written by
https://osquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/introduction/using-osqueryd/[osqueryd]
in the JSON format. To set up osqueryd follow the osquery installation
instructions for your operating system and configure the `filesystem` logging
driver (the default). Make sure UTC timestamps are enabled.

include::../include/what-happens.asciidoc[]


[float]
=== Compatibility

The  +{modulename}+ module was tested with logs from osquery version 2.10.2.
Since the results are written in the JSON format, it is likely that this module
works with any version of osquery.

This module is available on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with a sample dashboard for visualizing the data collected by
the "compliance" pack. To collect this data, enable the `id-compliance` pack in
the osquery configuration file.

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/kibana-osquery-compatibility.png[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

The following example shows how to set paths in the +modules.d/{modulename}.yml+
file to override the default paths for the syslog and authorization logs:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-----
- module: osquery
  result:
    enabled: true
    var.paths: ["/path/to/osqueryd.results.log*"]
-----


To specify the same settings at the command line, you use:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
-----
-M "osquery.result.var.paths=[/path/to/osqueryd.results.log*]"
-----

include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `result` fileset settings

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.use_namespace`*::

If true, all fields exported by this module are prefixed with `osquery.result`.
Set to false to copy the fields in the root of the document. If enabled, this
setting also disables the renaming of some fields (e.g. `hostIdentifier` to
`host_identifier`).  Note that if you set this to false, the sample dashboards
coming with this module won't work correctly. The default is true.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

:modulename!:

Commit message:

[6.8][DOCS] Backport: Fix markup issues for asciidoctor migration  (#13975) (#13989) (#14009)
* [7.0][DOCS] Backport: Fix markup issues for asciidoctor migration (#13961)

* [7.1][DOCS] Backport: Fix markup issues for asciidoctor migration (#13840)

* [7.2][DOCS] Fix markup issues for asciidoctor migration (#13760)

* Change tabs to spaces in add_labels example

Fix deprecated statements by adding colon

No longer escape curly braces

Use backslash attribute before attribute reference

Remove backslash character

Move conditional section to fix rendering issue

Revert previous commit and fix indentation in all books

Fix title abbreviation

Remove extra backlash in regex example

Remove backslash from examples

Move backslashes in auto discover example

Fix conditional coding

Remove pass macro because it no longer works

Add missing value for fileset example

Run make update

* Remove extra basckslash from autodiscover example

* Fix example formatting

* Run make update

* Add missing backslash

* Fix example formatting

* Run make update

filebeat/module/osquery/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

:modulename: osquery
:has-dashboards: true

== Osquery module

The +{modulename}+ module collects and decodes the result logs written by
https://osquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/introduction/using-osqueryd/[osqueryd]
in the JSON format. To set up osqueryd follow the osquery installation
instructions for your operating system and configure the `filesystem` logging
driver (the default). Make sure UTC timestamps are enabled.

include::../include/what-happens.asciidoc[]


[float]
=== Compatibility

The  +{modulename}+ module was tested with logs from osquery version 2.10.2.
Since the results are written in the JSON format, it is likely that this module
works with any version of osquery.

This module is available on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with a sample dashboard for visualizing the data collected by
the "compliance" pack. To collect this data, enable the `id-compliance` pack in
the osquery configuration file.

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/kibana-osquery-compatibility.png[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

The following example shows how to set paths in the +modules.d/{modulename}.yml+
file to override the default paths for the syslog and authorization logs:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-----
- module: osquery
  result:
    enabled: true
    var.paths: ["/path/to/osqueryd.results.log*"]
-----


To specify the same settings at the command line, you use:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
-----
-M "osquery.result.var.paths=[/path/to/osqueryd.results.log*]"
-----

//set the fileset name used in the included example
:fileset_ex: result
include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `result` fileset settings

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.use_namespace`*::

If true, all fields exported by this module are prefixed with `osquery.result`.
Set to false to copy the fields in the root of the document. If enabled, this
setting also disables the renaming of some fields (e.g. `hostIdentifier` to
`host_identifier`).  Note that if you set this to false, the sample dashboards
coming with this module won't work correctly. The default is true.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

:modulename!:
