x-pack/metricbeat/module/azure/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

This is the azure module.

The Azure Monitor feature collects and aggregates logs and metrics from a variety of sources into a common data platform where it can be used for analysis, visualization, and alerting.


The azure monitor metrics are numerical values that describe some aspect of a system at a particular point in time. They are collected at regular intervals and are identified with a timestamp, a name, a value, and one or more defining labels.

The azure module will periodically retrieve the azure monitor metrics using the Azure REST APIs as MetricList.
Additional azure API calls will be executed in order to retrieve information regarding the resources targeted by the user.

The azure module mericsets are `monitor`,  `compute_vm` and `compute_vm_scaleset`

[float]
=== Dashboards

The azure module comes with several predefined dashboards for virtual machines, VM guest metrics and virtual machine scale sets.

The VM overview dashboard shows information about CPU, memory, disk usage as well as operations per second. The two available filters help narrowing down the dashbord to specific regions and/or resource groups. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vm-overview.png[]

If VM guest metrics are enabled then the guest metrics overview dashboard can help with monitoring ASP.NET applications and SQL Server metrics. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vm-guestmetrics-overview.png[]

The virtual machine scale sets dashboard is similar to the VM dashboard and shows relevant health information about running vm scale sets. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vmss-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

All the tasks executed against the Azure Monitor REST API will use the Azure Resource Manager authentication model.
Therefore, all requests must be authenticated with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
One approach to authenticate the client application is to create an Azure AD service principal and retrieve the authentication (JWT) token.
For a more detailed walk-through, have a look at using Azure PowerShell to create a service principal to access resources https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/create-azure-service-principal-azureps?view=azps-2.7.0.
 It is also possible to create a service principal via the Azure portal https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal.
Users will have to make sure the roles assigned to the application contain at least reading permissions to the monitor data, more on the roles here https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.

Required credentials for the `azure` module:

`client_id`:: The unique identifier for the application (also known as Application Id)

`client_secret`:: The client/application secret/key

`subscription_id`:: The unique identifier for the azure subscription

`tenant_id`:: The unique identifier of the Azure Active Directory instance


Users can use the azure credentials keys if configured `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`

[float]
== Metricsets

[float]
=== `monitor`
This metricset allows users to retrieve metrics from specified resources. Added filters can apply here as the interval of retrieving these metrics, metric names,
aggregation list, namespaces and metric dimensions.

[float]
=== `compute_vm`
This metricset will collect metrics from the virtual machines, these metrics will have a timegrain every 5 minutes,
so the `period` for `compute_vm` metricset  should be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.

[float]
=== `compute_vm_scaleset`
This metricset will collect metrics from the virtual machine scalesets, these metrics will have a timegrain every 5 minutes,
so the `period` for `compute_vm_scaleset` metricset  should be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.


[float]
== Additional notes about metrics and costs

Costs: Metric queries are charged based on the number of standard API calls. More information on pricing here https://azure.microsoft.com/id-id/pricing/details/monitor/.

Authentication: we are handling authentication on our side (creating/renewing the authentication token), so we advise users to use dedicated credentials for metricbeat only.

Commit message:

Cherry-pick #15342 to 7.x: Add azure storage metricset (#15514)
* Add azure storage metricset (#15342)

* create metricset

* work in prog

* Work on metricset

* Add serviceType config option

* Fix tests

* Add func to retrieve on all dimensions

* work on different intervals

* revert custom event format

* work on reducing api calls

* fix fields and dashboards, work on reducing amount of api calls

* Add json example

* refactor

* refactor

* fix tests

* fix tests

* feedback

(cherry picked from commit ad8c50341e0497a4553588a102d3d47d165ab821)

* Fix changelog

x-pack/metricbeat/module/azure/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

This is the azure module.

The Azure Monitor feature collects and aggregates logs and metrics from a variety of sources into a common data platform where it can be used for analysis, visualization, and alerting.


The azure monitor metrics are numerical values that describe some aspect of a system at a particular point in time. They are collected at regular intervals and are identified with a timestamp, a name, a value, and one or more defining labels.

The azure module will periodically retrieve the azure monitor metrics using the Azure REST APIs as MetricList.
Additional azure API calls will be executed in order to retrieve information regarding the resources targeted by the user.

The azure module mericsets are `monitor`,  `compute_vm` and `compute_vm_scaleset`

[float]
=== Dashboards

The azure module comes with several predefined dashboards for virtual machines, VM guest metrics and virtual machine scale sets.

The VM overview dashboard shows information about CPU, memory, disk usage as well as operations per second. The two available filters help narrowing down the dashbord to specific regions and/or resource groups. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vm-overview.png[]

If VM guest metrics are enabled then the guest metrics overview dashboard can help with monitoring ASP.NET applications and SQL Server metrics. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vm-guestmetrics-overview.png[]

The virtual machine scale sets dashboard is similar to the VM dashboard and shows relevant health information about running vm scale sets. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-azure-vmss-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

All the tasks executed against the Azure Monitor REST API will use the Azure Resource Manager authentication model.
Therefore, all requests must be authenticated with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
One approach to authenticate the client application is to create an Azure AD service principal and retrieve the authentication (JWT) token.
For a more detailed walk-through, have a look at using Azure PowerShell to create a service principal to access resources https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/create-azure-service-principal-azureps?view=azps-2.7.0.
 It is also possible to create a service principal via the Azure portal https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal.
Users will have to make sure the roles assigned to the application contain at least reading permissions to the monitor data, more on the roles here https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.

Required credentials for the `azure` module:

`client_id`:: The unique identifier for the application (also known as Application Id)

`client_secret`:: The client/application secret/key

`subscription_id`:: The unique identifier for the azure subscription

`tenant_id`:: The unique identifier of the Azure Active Directory instance


Users can use the azure credentials keys if configured `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`

[float]
== Metricsets

[float]
=== `monitor`
This metricset allows users to retrieve metrics from specified resources. Added filters can apply here as the interval of retrieving these metrics, metric names,
aggregation list, namespaces and metric dimensions.

[float]
=== `compute_vm`
This metricset will collect metrics from the virtual machines, these metrics will have a timegrain every 5 minutes,
so the `period` for `compute_vm` metricset  should be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.

[float]
=== `compute_vm_scaleset`
This metricset will collect metrics from the virtual machine scalesets, these metrics will have a timegrain every 5 minutes,
so the `period` for `compute_vm_scaleset` metricset  should be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.

[float]
=== `storage`
This metricset will collect metrics from the storage accounts, these metrics will have a timegrain every 5 minutes,
so the `period` for `storage` metricset  should be `300s` or multiples of `300s`.


[float]
== Additional notes about metrics and costs

Costs: Metric queries are charged based on the number of standard API calls. More information on pricing here https://azure.microsoft.com/id-id/pricing/details/monitor/.

Authentication: we are handling authentication on our side (creating/renewing the authentication token), so we advise users to use dedicated credentials for metricbeat only.
