auditbeat/docs/running-on-kubernetes.asciidoc, before:

[[running-on-kubernetes]]
=== Running {beatname_uc} on Kubernetes

{beatname_uc} <<running-on-docker,Docker images>> can be used on Kubernetes to
check files integrity.

TIP: Running {ecloud} on Kubernetes? See {eck-ref}/k8s-beat.html[Run {beats} on ECK].

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]


[float]
==== Kubernetes deploy manifests

By deploying {beatname_uc} as a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSet]
we ensure we get a running instance on each node of the cluster.

Everything is deployed under `kube-system` namespace, you can change that by
updating the YAML file.

To get the manifests just run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/{beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
If you are using Kubernetes 1.7 or earlier: {beatname_uc} uses a hostPath volume to persist internal data, it's located
under /var/lib/{beatname_lc}-data. The manifest uses folder autocreation (`DirectoryOrCreate`), which was introduced in
Kubernetes 1.8. You will need to remove `type: DirectoryOrCreate` from the manifest and create the host folder yourself.
=======================================

[float]
==== Settings

Some parameters are exposed in the manifest to configure logs destination, by
default they will use an existing Elasticsearch deploy if it's present, but you
may want to change that behavior, so just edit the YAML file and modify them:

["source", "yaml", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_HOST
  value: elasticsearch
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PORT
  value: "9200"
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME
  value: elastic
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD
  value: changeme
------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Running {beatname_uc} on master nodes

Kubernetes master nodes can use https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/[taints]
to limit the workloads that can run on them. To run {beatname_uc} on master nodes you may need to
update the Daemonset spec to include proper tolerations:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
spec:
 tolerations:
 - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
   effect: NoSchedule
------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== Deploy

To deploy {beatname_uc} to Kubernetes just run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
kubectl create -f {beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

Then you should be able to check the status by running:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system get ds/{beatname_lc}

NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE-SELECTOR   AGE
{beatname_lc}   32        32        0         32           0           <none>          1m
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
{beatname_uc} is able to monitor the file integrity of files in pods,
to do that, the directories with the container root file systems have to be
mounted as volumes in the {beatname_uc} container. For example, containers
executed with containerd have their root file systems under `/run/containerd`.
The https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/{beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml[reference manifest] contains an example of this.
=======================================

Commit message:

Update control plane toleration. (#38040)
Signed-off-by: constanca <constanca.manteigas@elastic.co>

auditbeat/docs/running-on-kubernetes.asciidoc, after:

[[running-on-kubernetes]]
=== Running {beatname_uc} on Kubernetes

{beatname_uc} <<running-on-docker,Docker images>> can be used on Kubernetes to
check files integrity.

TIP: Running {ecloud} on Kubernetes? See {eck-ref}/k8s-beat.html[Run {beats} on ECK].

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]


[float]
==== Kubernetes deploy manifests

By deploying {beatname_uc} as a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSet]
we ensure we get a running instance on each node of the cluster.

Everything is deployed under `kube-system` namespace, you can change that by
updating the YAML file.

To get the manifests just run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/{beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
If you are using Kubernetes 1.7 or earlier: {beatname_uc} uses a hostPath volume to persist internal data, it's located
under /var/lib/{beatname_lc}-data. The manifest uses folder autocreation (`DirectoryOrCreate`), which was introduced in
Kubernetes 1.8. You will need to remove `type: DirectoryOrCreate` from the manifest and create the host folder yourself.
=======================================

[float]
==== Settings

Some parameters are exposed in the manifest to configure logs destination, by
default they will use an existing Elasticsearch deploy if it's present, but you
may want to change that behavior, so just edit the YAML file and modify them:

["source", "yaml", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_HOST
  value: elasticsearch
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PORT
  value: "9200"
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME
  value: elastic
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD
  value: changeme
------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Running {beatname_uc} on control plane nodes

Kubernetes control plane nodes can use https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/[taints]
to limit the workloads that can run on them. To run {beatname_uc} on control plane nodes you may need to
update the Daemonset spec to include proper tolerations:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
spec:
 tolerations:
 - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane
   effect: NoSchedule
------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== Deploy

To deploy {beatname_uc} to Kubernetes just run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
kubectl create -f {beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

Then you should be able to check the status by running:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system get ds/{beatname_lc}

NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE-SELECTOR   AGE
{beatname_lc}   32        32        0         32           0           <none>          1m
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
{beatname_uc} is able to monitor the file integrity of files in pods,
to do that, the directories with the container root file systems have to be
mounted as volumes in the {beatname_uc} container. For example, containers
executed with containerd have their root file systems under `/run/containerd`.
The https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/{beatname_lc}-kubernetes.yaml[reference manifest] contains an example of this.
=======================================
