libbeat/docs/monitoring/monitoring-metricbeat.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[monitoring-metricbeat-collection]]
== Collect {beatname_uc} monitoring data with {metricbeat}
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{metricbeat} collection</titleabbrev>
++++

In 7.3 and later, you can use {metricbeat} to collect data about {beatname_uc} 
and ship it to the monitoring cluster.

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
Because you'll be using {metricbeat} to _monitor_ {beatname_uc}, you'll need to
run two instances of {beatname_uc}: a main instance that collects metrics from
the system and services running on the server, and a second instance that
collects metrics from {beatname_uc} only. Using a separate instance as a
monitoring agent allows you to send monitoring data to a dedicated monitoring
cluster. If the main agent goes down, the monitoring agent remains active.

If you're running {beatname_uc} as a service, this approach requires extra work
because you need to run two instances of the same installed  service
concurrently. If you don't want to run two instances concurrently, use
<<monitoring-internal-collection,internal collection>> instead of using
{metricbeat}.
endif::[]

//Commenting out this link temporarily until the general monitoring docs can be
//updated. 
//To learn about monitoring in general, see 
//{ref}/monitor-elasticsearch-cluster.html[Monitor a cluster].

//NOTE: The tagged regions are re-used in the Stack Overview.

To collect and ship monitoring data:

. <<configure-shipper,Configure the shipper you want to monitor>>

. <<configure-metricbeat,Install and configure {metricbeat} to collect monitoring data>>

[float]
[[configure-shipper]]
=== Configure the shipper you want to monitor

. Enable the HTTP endpoint to allow external collection of monitoring data:
+
--
// tag::enable-http-endpoint[]
Add the following setting in the {beatname_uc} configuration file
(+{beatname_lc}.yml+):

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
http.enabled: true
----------------------------------

By default, metrics are exposed on port 5066. If you need to monitor multiple
{beats} shippers running on the same server, set `http.port` to expose metrics
for each shipper on a different port number:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
http.port: 5067
----------------------------------
// end::enable-http-endpoint[]
--

. Disable the default collection of {beatname_uc} monitoring metrics. +
+
--
// tag::disable-beat-collection[]
Add the following setting in the {beatname_uc} configuration file
(+{beatname_lc}.yml+): 

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
monitoring.enabled: false
----------------------------------
// end::disable-beat-collection[]

For more information, see 
<<configuration-monitor,Monitoring configuration options>>.
--

ifndef::serverless[]
. Start {beatname_uc}.
endif::[]

[float]
[[configure-metricbeat]]
=== Install and configure {metricbeat} to collect monitoring data

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="metricbeat"]
. {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-installation.html[Install {metricbeat}] on the
same server as {beatname_uc}. If you already have {metricbeat} installed on the
server, skip this step.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
. The next step depends on how you want to run {metricbeat}:
* If you're running as a service and want to run a separate monitoring instance,
take the the steps required for your environment to run two instances of
{metricbeat} as a service. The steps for doing this vary by platform and are
beyond the scope of this documentation.
* If you're running the binary directly in the foreground and want to run a
separate monitoring instance,
{metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-installation.html[install {metricbeat}] to a
different path. If necessary, set `path.config`, `path.data`, and `path.log`
to point to the correct directories. See <<directory-layout>> for the default
locations.
endif::[]

. Enable the `beat-xpack` module in {metricbeat}. +
+
--
// tag::enable-beat-module[]
For example, to enable the default configuration in the `modules.d` directory, 
run the following command, using the correct command syntax for your OS:

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat modules enable beat-xpack
----------------------------------------------------------------------

For more information, see 
{metricbeat-ref}/configuration-metricbeat.html[Specify which modules to run] and 
{metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-beat.html[beat module]. 
// end::enable-beat-module[]
--

. Configure the `beat-xpack` module in {metricbeat}. +
+
--
// tag::configure-beat-module[]
The `modules.d/beat-xpack.yml` file contains the following settings:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
- module: beat
  metricsets:
    - stats
    - state
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["http://localhost:5066"]
  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"
  xpack.enabled: true
----------------------------------
 
Set the `hosts`, `username`, and `password` settings as required by your
environment. For other module settings, it's recommended that you accept the
defaults.

By default, the module collects {beatname_uc} monitoring data from
`localhost:5066`. If you exposed the metrics on a different host or port when
you enabled the HTTP endpoint, update the `hosts` setting.

To monitor multiple 
ifndef::apm-server[]
{beats} agents,
endif::[]
ifdef::apm-server[]
APM Server instances,
endif::[]
specify a list of hosts, for example:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
hosts: ["http://localhost:5066","http://localhost:5067","http://localhost:5068"]
----------------------------------

If you configured {beatname_uc} to use encrypted communications, you must access
it via HTTPS. For example, use a `hosts` setting like `https://localhost:5066`.
// end::configure-beat-module[]

// tag::remote-monitoring-user[]
If the Elastic {security-features} are enabled, you must also provide a user 
ID and password so that {metricbeat} can collect metrics successfully: 

.. Create a user on the {es} cluster that has the 
`remote_monitoring_collector` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role]. 
Alternatively, if it's available in your environment, use the
`remote_monitoring_user` {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user].

.. Add the `username` and `password` settings to the beat module configuration 
file.
// end::remote-monitoring-user[]
--

. Optional: Disable the system module in the {metricbeat}.
+
--
// tag::disable-system-module[]
By default, the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-system.html[system module] is
enabled. The information it collects, however, is not shown on the
*Stack Monitoring* page in {kib}. Unless you want to use that information for
other purposes, run the following command:

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat modules disable system
----------------------------------------------------------------------
// end::disable-system-module[] 
--

. Identify where to send the monitoring data. +
+
--
TIP: In production environments, we strongly recommend using a separate cluster 
(referred to as the _monitoring cluster_) to store the data. Using a separate 
monitoring cluster prevents production cluster outages from impacting your 
ability to access your monitoring data. It also prevents monitoring activities 
from impacting the performance of your production cluster.

For example, specify the {es} output information in the {metricbeat} 
configuration file (`metricbeat.yml`):

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  # Array of hosts to connect to.
  hosts: ["http://es-mon-1:9200", "http://es-mon2:9200"] <1>
  
  # Optional protocol and basic auth credentials.
  #protocol: "https"
  #api_key:  "id:api_key" <2>
  #username: "elastic"
  #password: "changeme"
----------------------------------
<1> In this example, the data is stored on a monitoring cluster with nodes 
`es-mon-1` and `es-mon-2`.
<2> Specify one of `api_key` or `username`/`password`.

If you configured the monitoring cluster to use encrypted communications, you
must access it via HTTPS. For example, use a `hosts` setting like
`https://es-mon-1:9200`.

IMPORTANT: The {es} {monitor-features} use ingest pipelines, therefore the
cluster that stores the monitoring data must have at least one ingest node.

If the {es} {security-features} are enabled on the monitoring cluster, you 
must provide a valid user ID and password so that {metricbeat} can send metrics 
successfully: 

.. Create a user on the monitoring cluster that has the 
`remote_monitoring_agent` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role]. 
Alternatively, if it's available in your environment, use the
`remote_monitoring_user` {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user]. 
+
TIP: If you're using index lifecycle management, the remote monitoring user
requires additional privileges to create and read indices. For more
information, see <<feature-roles>>.

.. Add the `username` and `password` settings to the {es} output information in 
the {metricbeat} configuration file.

For more information about these configuration options, see 
{metricbeat-ref}/elasticsearch-output.html[Configure the {es} output].
--

. {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-starting.html[Start {metricbeat}] to begin
collecting monitoring data. 

. {kibana-ref}/monitoring-data.html[View the monitoring data in {kib}].

Commit message:

Update python 3 branch with master (#15650)

libbeat/docs/monitoring/monitoring-metricbeat.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[monitoring-metricbeat-collection]]
== Use {metricbeat} to send monitoring data
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{metricbeat} collection</titleabbrev>
++++

In 7.3 and later, you can use {metricbeat} to collect data about {beatname_uc} 
and ship it to the monitoring cluster. The benefit of using {metricbeat} instead
of internal collection is that the monitoring agent remains active even if the
{beatname_uc} instance dies.

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
Because you'll be using {metricbeat} to _monitor_ {beatname_uc}, you'll need to
run two instances of {beatname_uc}: a main instance that collects metrics from
the system and services running on the server, and a second instance that
collects metrics from {beatname_uc} only. Using a separate instance as a
monitoring agent allows you to send monitoring data to a dedicated monitoring
cluster. If the main agent goes down, the monitoring agent remains active.

If you're running {beatname_uc} as a service, this approach requires extra work
because you need to run two instances of the same installed  service
concurrently. If you don't want to run two instances concurrently, use
<<monitoring-internal-collection,internal collection>> instead of using
{metricbeat}.
endif::[]

//Commenting out this link temporarily until the general monitoring docs can be
//updated. 
//To learn about monitoring in general, see 
//{ref}/monitor-elasticsearch-cluster.html[Monitor a cluster].

//NOTE: The tagged regions are re-used in the Stack Overview.

To collect and ship monitoring data:

. <<configure-shipper,Configure the shipper you want to monitor>>

. <<configure-metricbeat,Install and configure {metricbeat} to collect monitoring data>>

[float]
[[configure-shipper]]
=== Configure the shipper you want to monitor

. Enable the HTTP endpoint to allow external collection of monitoring data:
+
--
// tag::enable-http-endpoint[]
Add the following setting in the {beatname_uc} configuration file
(+{beatname_lc}.yml+):

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
http.enabled: true
----------------------------------

By default, metrics are exposed on port 5066. If you need to monitor multiple
{beats} shippers running on the same server, set `http.port` to expose metrics
for each shipper on a different port number:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
http.port: 5067
----------------------------------
// end::enable-http-endpoint[]
--

. Disable the default collection of {beatname_uc} monitoring metrics. +
+
--
// tag::disable-beat-collection[]
Add the following setting in the {beatname_uc} configuration file
(+{beatname_lc}.yml+): 

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
monitoring.enabled: false
----------------------------------
// end::disable-beat-collection[]

For more information, see 
<<configuration-monitor,Monitoring configuration options>>.
--

ifndef::serverless[]
. Start {beatname_uc}.
endif::[]

[float]
[[configure-metricbeat]]
=== Install and configure {metricbeat} to collect monitoring data

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="metricbeat"]
. {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-installation.html[Install {metricbeat}] on the
same server as {beatname_uc}. If you already have {metricbeat} installed on the
server, skip this step.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
. The next step depends on how you want to run {metricbeat}:
* If you're running as a service and want to run a separate monitoring instance,
take the the steps required for your environment to run two instances of
{metricbeat} as a service. The steps for doing this vary by platform and are
beyond the scope of this documentation.
* If you're running the binary directly in the foreground and want to run a
separate monitoring instance,
{metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-installation.html[install {metricbeat}] to a
different path. If necessary, set `path.config`, `path.data`, and `path.log`
to point to the correct directories. See <<directory-layout>> for the default
locations.
endif::[]

. Enable the `beat-xpack` module in {metricbeat}. +
+
--
// tag::enable-beat-module[]
For example, to enable the default configuration in the `modules.d` directory, 
run the following command, using the correct command syntax for your OS:

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat modules enable beat-xpack
----------------------------------------------------------------------

For more information, see 
{metricbeat-ref}/configuration-metricbeat.html[Specify which modules to run] and 
{metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-beat.html[beat module]. 
// end::enable-beat-module[]
--

. Configure the `beat-xpack` module in {metricbeat}. +
+
--
// tag::configure-beat-module[]
The `modules.d/beat-xpack.yml` file contains the following settings:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
- module: beat
  metricsets:
    - stats
    - state
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["http://localhost:5066"]
  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"
  xpack.enabled: true
----------------------------------
 
Set the `hosts`, `username`, and `password` settings as required by your
environment. For other module settings, it's recommended that you accept the
defaults.

By default, the module collects {beatname_uc} monitoring data from
`localhost:5066`. If you exposed the metrics on a different host or port when
you enabled the HTTP endpoint, update the `hosts` setting.

To monitor multiple 
ifndef::apm-server[]
{beats} agents,
endif::[]
ifdef::apm-server[]
APM Server instances,
endif::[]
specify a list of hosts, for example:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
hosts: ["http://localhost:5066","http://localhost:5067","http://localhost:5068"]
----------------------------------

If you configured {beatname_uc} to use encrypted communications, you must access
it via HTTPS. For example, use a `hosts` setting like `https://localhost:5066`.
// end::configure-beat-module[]

// tag::remote-monitoring-user[]
If the Elastic {security-features} are enabled, you must also provide a user 
ID and password so that {metricbeat} can collect metrics successfully: 

.. Create a user on the {es} cluster that has the 
`remote_monitoring_collector` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role]. 
Alternatively, if it's available in your environment, use the
`remote_monitoring_user` {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user].

.. Add the `username` and `password` settings to the beat module configuration 
file.
// end::remote-monitoring-user[]
--

. Optional: Disable the system module in the {metricbeat}.
+
--
// tag::disable-system-module[]
By default, the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-system.html[system module] is
enabled. The information it collects, however, is not shown on the
*Stack Monitoring* page in {kib}. Unless you want to use that information for
other purposes, run the following command:

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat modules disable system
----------------------------------------------------------------------
// end::disable-system-module[] 
--

. Identify where to send the monitoring data. +
+
--
TIP: In production environments, we strongly recommend using a separate cluster 
(referred to as the _monitoring cluster_) to store the data. Using a separate 
monitoring cluster prevents production cluster outages from impacting your 
ability to access your monitoring data. It also prevents monitoring activities 
from impacting the performance of your production cluster.

For example, specify the {es} output information in the {metricbeat} 
configuration file (`metricbeat.yml`):

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  # Array of hosts to connect to.
  hosts: ["http://es-mon-1:9200", "http://es-mon2:9200"] <1>
  
  # Optional protocol and basic auth credentials.
  #protocol: "https"
  #api_key:  "id:api_key" <2>
  #username: "elastic"
  #password: "changeme"
----------------------------------
<1> In this example, the data is stored on a monitoring cluster with nodes 
`es-mon-1` and `es-mon-2`.
<2> Specify one of `api_key` or `username`/`password`.

If you configured the monitoring cluster to use encrypted communications, you
must access it via HTTPS. For example, use a `hosts` setting like
`https://es-mon-1:9200`.

IMPORTANT: The {es} {monitor-features} use ingest pipelines, therefore the
cluster that stores the monitoring data must have at least one ingest node.

If the {es} {security-features} are enabled on the monitoring cluster, you 
must provide a valid user ID and password so that {metricbeat} can send metrics 
successfully: 

.. Create a user on the monitoring cluster that has the 
`remote_monitoring_agent` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role]. 
Alternatively, if it's available in your environment, use the
`remote_monitoring_user` {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user]. 
+
TIP: If you're using index lifecycle management, the remote monitoring user
requires additional privileges to create and read indices. For more
information, see <<feature-roles>>.

.. Add the `username` and `password` settings to the {es} output information in 
the {metricbeat} configuration file.

For more information about these configuration options, see 
{metricbeat-ref}/elasticsearch-output.html[Configure the {es} output].
--

. {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-starting.html[Start {metricbeat}] to begin
collecting monitoring data. 

. {kibana-ref}/monitoring-data.html[View the monitoring data in {kib}].
