auditbeat/module/auditd/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

== Auditd Module

The `auditd` module receives audit events from the Linux Audit Framework that
is a part of the Linux kernel.

This module is available only for Linux.

[float]
=== How it works

This module establishes a subscription to the kernel to receive the events
as they occur. So unlike most other modules, the `period` configuration
option is unused because it is not implemented using polling.

The Linux Audit Framework can send multiple messages for a single auditable
event. For example, a `rename` syscall causes the kernel to send eight separate
messages. Each message describes a different aspect of the activity that is
occurring (the syscall itself, file paths, current working directory, process
title). This module will combine all of the data from each of the messages
into a single event.

Messages for one event can be interleaved with messages from another event. This
module will buffer the messages in order to combine related messages into a
single event even if they arrive interleaved or out of order.

[float]
=== Useful commands

When running {beatname_uc} with the `auditd` module enabled, you might find
that other monitoring tools interfere with {beatname_uc}.

For example, you might encounter errors if another process, such as `auditd`, is
registered to receive data from the Linux Audit Framework. You can use these
commands to see if the `auditd` service is running and stop it:

* See if `auditd` is running:
+
[source,shell]
-----
service auditd status
-----

* Stop the `auditd` service:
+
[source,shell]
-----
service auditd stop
-----

* Disable `auditd` from starting on boot:
+
[source,shell]
-----
chkconfig auditd off
-----

To save CPU usage and disk space, you can use this command to stop `journald`
from listening to audit messages:

[source,shell]
-----
systemctl mask systemd-journald-audit.socket
-----

[float]
=== Inspect the kernel audit system status

{beatname_uc} provides useful commands to query the state of the audit system
in the Linux kernel.

* See the list of installed audit rules:
+
[source,shell]
-----
auditbeat show auditd-rules
-----
+
Prints the list of loaded rules, similar to `auditctl -l`:
+
[source,shell]
-----
-a never,exit -S all -F pid=26253
-a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S all -F key=32bit-abi
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S execve,execveat -F key=exec
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S connect,accept,bind -F key=external-access
-w /etc/group -p wa -k identity
-w /etc/passwd -p wa -k identity
-w /etc/gshadow -p wa -k identity
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F key=access
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F key=access
-----

* See the status of the audit system:
+
[source,shell]
-----
auditbeat show auditd-status
-----
+
Prints the status of the kernel audit system, similar to `auditctl -s`:
+
[source,shell]
-----
enabled 1
failure 0
pid 0
rate_limit 0
backlog_limit 8192
lost 14407
backlog 0
backlog_wait_time 0
features 0xf
-----

[float]
=== Configuration options

This module has some configuration options for tuning its behavior. The
following example shows all configuration options with their default values.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: auditd
  resolve_ids: true
  failure_mode: silent
  backlog_limit: 8192
  rate_limit: 0
  include_raw_message: false
  include_warnings: false
  backpressure_strategy: auto
----

*`socket_type`*:: This optional setting controls the type of
socket that {beatname_uc} uses to receive events from the kernel. The two
options are `unicast` and `multicast`.
+
`unicast` should be used when {beatname_uc} is the primary userspace daemon for
receiving audit events and managing the rules. Only a single process can receive
audit events through the "unicast" connection so any other daemons should be
stopped (e.g. stop `auditd`).
+
`multicast` can be used in kernel versions 3.16 and newer. By using `multicast`
{beatname_uc} will receive an audit event broadcast that is not exclusive to a
a single process. This is ideal for situations where `auditd` is running and
managing the rules. If `multicast` is specified, but the kernel version is less
than 3.16 {beatname_uc} will automatically revert to `unicast`.
+
By default {beatname_uc} will use `multicast` if the kernel version is 3.16 or
newer and no rules have been defined. Otherwise `unicast` will be used.

*`resolve_ids`*:: This boolean setting enables the resolution of UIDs and
GIDs to their associated names. The default value is true.

*`failure_mode`*:: This determines the kernel's behavior on critical
failures such as errors sending events to {beatname_uc}, the backlog limit was
exceeded, the kernel ran out of memory, or the rate limit was exceeded. The
options are `silent`, `log`, or `panic`. `silent` basically makes the kernel
ignore the errors, `log` makes the kernel write the audit messages using
`printk` so they show up in system's syslog, and `panic` causes the kernel to
panic to prevent use of the machine. {beatname_uc}'s default is `silent`.

*`backlog_limit`*:: This controls the maximum number of audit messages
that will be buffered by the kernel.

*`rate_limit`*:: This sets a rate limit on the number of messages/sec
delivered by the kernel. The default is 0, which disables rate limiting.
Changing this value to anything other than zero can cause messages to be lost.
The preferred approach to reduce the messaging rate is be more selective in the
audit ruleset.

*`include_raw_message`*:: This boolean setting causes {beatname_uc} to
include each of the raw messages that contributed to the event in the document
as a field called `event.original`. The default value is false. This setting is
primarily used for development and debugging purposes.

*`include_warnings`*:: This boolean setting causes {beatname_uc} to
include as warnings any issues that were encountered while parsing the raw
messages. The messages are written to the `error.message` field. The default
value is false. When this setting is enabled the raw messages will be included
in the event regardless of the `include_raw_message` config setting. This
setting is primarily used for development and debugging purposes.

*`audit_rules`*:: A string containing the audit rules that should be
installed to the kernel. There should be one rule per line. Comments can be
embedded in the string using `#` as a prefix. The format for rules is the same
used by the Linux `auditctl` utility. {beatname_uc} supports adding file watches
(`-w`) and syscall rules (`-a` or `-A`).

*`audit_rule_files`*:: A list of files to load audit rules from. This files are
loaded after the rules declared in `audit_rules` are loaded. Wildcards are
supported and will expand in lexicographical order. The format is the same as
that of the `audit_rules` field.

*`backpressure_strategy`*:: Specifies the strategy that {beatname_uc} uses to
prevent backpressure from propagating to the kernel and impacting audited
processes.
+
--
The possible values are:

- `auto` (default): {beatname_uc} uses the `kernel` strategy, if supported, or
falls back to the `userspace` strategy.
- `kernel`: {beatname_uc} sets the `backlog_wait_time` in the kernel's
audit framework to 0. This causes events to be discarded in the kernel if
the audit backlog queue fills to capacity. Requires a 3.14 kernel or
newer.
- `userspace`: {beatname_uc} drops events when there is backpressure
from the publishing pipeline. If no `rate_limit` is set, {beatname_uc} sets a rate
limit of 5000. Users should test their setup and adjust the `rate_limit`
option accordingly.
- `both`: {beatname_uc} uses the `kernel` and `userspace` strategies at the same
time.
- `none`: No backpressure mitigation measures are enabled.
--

*`keep_null`*:: If this option is set to true, fields with `null` values will be
published in the output document. By default, `keep_null` is set to `false`.

[float]
=== Audit rules

The audit rules are where you configure the activities that are audited. These
rules are configured as either syscalls or files that should be monitored. For
example you can track all `connect` syscalls or file system writes to
`/etc/passwd`.

Auditing a large number of syscalls can place a heavy load on the system so
consider carefully the rules you define and try to apply filters in the rules
themselves to be as selective as possible.

The kernel evaluates the rules in the order in which they were defined so place
the most active rules first in order to speed up evaluation.

You can assign keys to each rule for better identification of the rule that
triggered an event and easier filtering later in Elasticsearch.

Defining any audit rules in the config causes {beatname_uc} to purge all
existing audit rules prior to adding the rules specified in the config.
Therefore it is unnecessary and unsupported to include a `-D` (delete all) rule.

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.modules:
- module: auditd
  audit_rules: |
    # Things that affect identity.
    -w /etc/group -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/passwd -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/gshadow -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/shadow -p wa -k identity

    # Unauthorized access attempts to files (unsuccessful).
    -a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S open,creat,truncate,ftruncate,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S open,creat,truncate,ftruncate,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
----

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add missing config options to shared file (#15136) (#15724)

auditbeat/module/auditd/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

== Auditd Module

The `auditd` module receives audit events from the Linux Audit Framework that
is a part of the Linux kernel.

This module is available only for Linux.

[float]
=== How it works

This module establishes a subscription to the kernel to receive the events
as they occur. So unlike most other modules, the `period` configuration
option is unused because it is not implemented using polling.

The Linux Audit Framework can send multiple messages for a single auditable
event. For example, a `rename` syscall causes the kernel to send eight separate
messages. Each message describes a different aspect of the activity that is
occurring (the syscall itself, file paths, current working directory, process
title). This module will combine all of the data from each of the messages
into a single event.

Messages for one event can be interleaved with messages from another event. This
module will buffer the messages in order to combine related messages into a
single event even if they arrive interleaved or out of order.

[float]
=== Useful commands

When running {beatname_uc} with the `auditd` module enabled, you might find
that other monitoring tools interfere with {beatname_uc}.

For example, you might encounter errors if another process, such as `auditd`, is
registered to receive data from the Linux Audit Framework. You can use these
commands to see if the `auditd` service is running and stop it:

* See if `auditd` is running:
+
[source,shell]
-----
service auditd status
-----

* Stop the `auditd` service:
+
[source,shell]
-----
service auditd stop
-----

* Disable `auditd` from starting on boot:
+
[source,shell]
-----
chkconfig auditd off
-----

To save CPU usage and disk space, you can use this command to stop `journald`
from listening to audit messages:

[source,shell]
-----
systemctl mask systemd-journald-audit.socket
-----

[float]
=== Inspect the kernel audit system status

{beatname_uc} provides useful commands to query the state of the audit system
in the Linux kernel.

* See the list of installed audit rules:
+
[source,shell]
-----
auditbeat show auditd-rules
-----
+
Prints the list of loaded rules, similar to `auditctl -l`:
+
[source,shell]
-----
-a never,exit -S all -F pid=26253
-a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S all -F key=32bit-abi
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S execve,execveat -F key=exec
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S connect,accept,bind -F key=external-access
-w /etc/group -p wa -k identity
-w /etc/passwd -p wa -k identity
-w /etc/gshadow -p wa -k identity
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F key=access
-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F key=access
-----

* See the status of the audit system:
+
[source,shell]
-----
auditbeat show auditd-status
-----
+
Prints the status of the kernel audit system, similar to `auditctl -s`:
+
[source,shell]
-----
enabled 1
failure 0
pid 0
rate_limit 0
backlog_limit 8192
lost 14407
backlog 0
backlog_wait_time 0
features 0xf
-----

[float]
=== Configuration options

This module has some configuration options for tuning its behavior. The
following example shows all configuration options with their default values.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: auditd
  resolve_ids: true
  failure_mode: silent
  backlog_limit: 8192
  rate_limit: 0
  include_raw_message: false
  include_warnings: false
  backpressure_strategy: auto
----

This module also supports the
<<module-standard-options-{modulename},standard configuration options>>
described later.

*`socket_type`*:: This optional setting controls the type of
socket that {beatname_uc} uses to receive events from the kernel. The two
options are `unicast` and `multicast`.
+
`unicast` should be used when {beatname_uc} is the primary userspace daemon for
receiving audit events and managing the rules. Only a single process can receive
audit events through the "unicast" connection so any other daemons should be
stopped (e.g. stop `auditd`).
+
`multicast` can be used in kernel versions 3.16 and newer. By using `multicast`
{beatname_uc} will receive an audit event broadcast that is not exclusive to a
a single process. This is ideal for situations where `auditd` is running and
managing the rules. If `multicast` is specified, but the kernel version is less
than 3.16 {beatname_uc} will automatically revert to `unicast`.
+
By default {beatname_uc} will use `multicast` if the kernel version is 3.16 or
newer and no rules have been defined. Otherwise `unicast` will be used.

*`resolve_ids`*:: This boolean setting enables the resolution of UIDs and
GIDs to their associated names. The default value is true.

*`failure_mode`*:: This determines the kernel's behavior on critical
failures such as errors sending events to {beatname_uc}, the backlog limit was
exceeded, the kernel ran out of memory, or the rate limit was exceeded. The
options are `silent`, `log`, or `panic`. `silent` basically makes the kernel
ignore the errors, `log` makes the kernel write the audit messages using
`printk` so they show up in system's syslog, and `panic` causes the kernel to
panic to prevent use of the machine. {beatname_uc}'s default is `silent`.

*`backlog_limit`*:: This controls the maximum number of audit messages
that will be buffered by the kernel.

*`rate_limit`*:: This sets a rate limit on the number of messages/sec
delivered by the kernel. The default is 0, which disables rate limiting.
Changing this value to anything other than zero can cause messages to be lost.
The preferred approach to reduce the messaging rate is be more selective in the
audit ruleset.

*`include_raw_message`*:: This boolean setting causes {beatname_uc} to
include each of the raw messages that contributed to the event in the document
as a field called `event.original`. The default value is false. This setting is
primarily used for development and debugging purposes.

*`include_warnings`*:: This boolean setting causes {beatname_uc} to
include as warnings any issues that were encountered while parsing the raw
messages. The messages are written to the `error.message` field. The default
value is false. When this setting is enabled the raw messages will be included
in the event regardless of the `include_raw_message` config setting. This
setting is primarily used for development and debugging purposes.

*`audit_rules`*:: A string containing the audit rules that should be
installed to the kernel. There should be one rule per line. Comments can be
embedded in the string using `#` as a prefix. The format for rules is the same
used by the Linux `auditctl` utility. {beatname_uc} supports adding file watches
(`-w`) and syscall rules (`-a` or `-A`). For more information, see
<<audit-rules>>.

*`audit_rule_files`*:: A list of files to load audit rules from. This files are
loaded after the rules declared in `audit_rules` are loaded. Wildcards are
supported and will expand in lexicographical order. The format is the same as
that of the `audit_rules` field.

*`backpressure_strategy`*:: Specifies the strategy that {beatname_uc} uses to
prevent backpressure from propagating to the kernel and impacting audited
processes.
+
--
The possible values are:

- `auto` (default): {beatname_uc} uses the `kernel` strategy, if supported, or
falls back to the `userspace` strategy.
- `kernel`: {beatname_uc} sets the `backlog_wait_time` in the kernel's
audit framework to 0. This causes events to be discarded in the kernel if
the audit backlog queue fills to capacity. Requires a 3.14 kernel or
newer.
- `userspace`: {beatname_uc} drops events when there is backpressure
from the publishing pipeline. If no `rate_limit` is set, {beatname_uc} sets a rate
limit of 5000. Users should test their setup and adjust the `rate_limit`
option accordingly.
- `both`: {beatname_uc} uses the `kernel` and `userspace` strategies at the same
time.
- `none`: No backpressure mitigation measures are enabled.
--

include::{docdir}/auditbeat-options.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[audit-rules]]
=== Audit rules

The audit rules are where you configure the activities that are audited. These
rules are configured as either syscalls or files that should be monitored. For
example you can track all `connect` syscalls or file system writes to
`/etc/passwd`.

Auditing a large number of syscalls can place a heavy load on the system so
consider carefully the rules you define and try to apply filters in the rules
themselves to be as selective as possible.

The kernel evaluates the rules in the order in which they were defined so place
the most active rules first in order to speed up evaluation.

You can assign keys to each rule for better identification of the rule that
triggered an event and easier filtering later in Elasticsearch.

Defining any audit rules in the config causes {beatname_uc} to purge all
existing audit rules prior to adding the rules specified in the config.
Therefore it is unnecessary and unsupported to include a `-D` (delete all) rule.

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.modules:
- module: auditd
  audit_rules: |
    # Things that affect identity.
    -w /etc/group -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/passwd -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/gshadow -p wa -k identity
    -w /etc/shadow -p wa -k identity

    # Unauthorized access attempts to files (unsuccessful).
    -a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S open,creat,truncate,ftruncate,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S open,creat,truncate,ftruncate,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EACCES -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
    -a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S open,truncate,ftruncate,creat,openat,open_by_handle_at -F exit=-EPERM -F auid>=1000 -F auid!=4294967295 -F key=access
----
