metricbeat/module/prometheus/collector/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

The Prometheus `collector` metricset scrapes data from https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/[prometheus exporters].


[float]
=== Scraping from a Prometheus exporter

To scrape metrics from a Prometheus exporter, configure the `hosts` field to it. The path
to retrieve the metrics from (`/metrics` by default) can be configured with `metrics_path`.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["node:9100"]
  metrics_path: /metrics

  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"

  # This can be used for service account based authorization:
  #bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
  #ssl.certificate_authorities:
  #  - /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/service-ca.crt
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[float]
=== Scraping all metrics from a Prometheus server

This module can scrape all metrics stored in a Prometheus server, by using the
https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/federation/[federation API]. By pointing this
config to the Prometheus server:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat.modules:
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:9090"]
  metrics_path: '/federate'
  query:
    'match[]': '{__name__!=""}'
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== Filtering metrics

In order to filter out/in metrics one can make use of `metrics_filters.include` `metrics_filters.exclude` settings:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:9092"]
  metrics_path: /metrics
  metrics_filters:
    include: ["node_filesystem_*"]
    exclude: ["node_filesystem_device_*", "node_filesystem_readonly"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration above will include only metrics that match `node_filesystem_*` pattern and do not match `node_filesystem_device_*`
and are not `node_filesystem_readonly` metric.

Commit message:

Apply filters on prometheus 'up' metrics (#16568) (#16593)
(cherry picked from commit ae34415c2057047e4a25bed5fcf85241de208f69)

metricbeat/module/prometheus/collector/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

The Prometheus `collector` metricset scrapes data from https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/[prometheus exporters].


[float]
=== Scraping from a Prometheus exporter

To scrape metrics from a Prometheus exporter, configure the `hosts` field to it. The path
to retrieve the metrics from (`/metrics` by default) can be configured with `metrics_path`.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["node:9100"]
  metrics_path: /metrics

  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"

  # This can be used for service account based authorization:
  #bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
  #ssl.certificate_authorities:
  #  - /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/service-ca.crt
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[float]
=== Scraping all metrics from a Prometheus server

This module can scrape all metrics stored in a Prometheus server, by using the
https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/federation/[federation API]. By pointing this
config to the Prometheus server:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
metricbeat.modules:
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:9090"]
  metrics_path: '/federate'
  query:
    'match[]': '{__name__!=""}'
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== Filtering metrics

In order to filter out/in metrics one can make use of `metrics_filters.include` `metrics_filters.exclude` settings:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:9090"]
  metrics_path: /metrics
  metrics_filters:
    include: ["node_filesystem_*"]
    exclude: ["node_filesystem_device_*"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration above will include only metrics that match `node_filesystem_*` pattern and do not match `node_filesystem_device_*`.


To keep only specific metrics, anchor the start and the end of the regexp of each metric:

- the caret ^ matches the beginning of a text or line,
- the dollar sign $ matches the end of a text.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- module: prometheus
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:9090"]
  metrics_path: /metrics
  metrics_filters:
    include: ["^node_network_net_dev_group$", "^node_network_up$"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
