libbeat/outputs/fileout/docs/fileout.asciidoc, before:

[[file-output]]
=== Configure the File output

++++
<titleabbrev>File</titleabbrev>
++++

The File output dumps the transactions into a file where each transaction is in a JSON format.
Currently, this output is used for testing, but it can be used as input for
Logstash.

To use this output, edit the {beatname_uc} configuration file to disable the {es}
output by commenting it out, and enable the file output by adding `output.file`.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.file:
  path: "/tmp/{beatname_lc}"
  filename: {beatname_lc}
  #rotate_every_kb: 10000
  #number_of_files: 7
  #permissions: 0600
  #rotate_on_startup: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ifdef::apm-server[]
[float]
==== Configure the {kib} output

include::../../../../shared-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[tag=shared-kibana-config]
endif::[]

==== Configuration options

You can specify the following `output.file` options in the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

===== `enabled`

The enabled config is a boolean setting to enable or disable the output. If set
to false, the output is disabled.

The default value is `true`.

[[path]]
===== `path`

The path to the directory where the generated files will be saved. This option is
mandatory.

===== `filename`

The name of the generated files. The default is set to the Beat name. For example, the files
generated by default for {beatname_uc} would be "{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}.ndjson", "{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}-1.ndjson",
"{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}-2.ndjson", and so on.

===== `rotate_every_kb`

The maximum size in kilobytes of each file. When this size is reached, the files are
rotated. The default value is 10240 KB.

===== `number_of_files`

The maximum number of files to save under <<path,`path`>>. When this number of files is reached, the
oldest file is deleted, and the rest of the files are shifted from last to first.
The number of files must be between 2 and 1024. The default is 7.

===== `permissions`

Permissions to use for file creation. The default is 0600.

===== `rotate_on_startup`

If the output file already exists on startup, immediately rotate it and start writing to a new file instead of appending to the existing one. Defaults to true.

===== `codec`

Output codec configuration. If the `codec` section is missing, events will be json encoded.

See <<configuration-output-codec>> for more information.

Commit message:

support for Timestamp in file outputter path (#38029)
* support for TIME_NOW var

* fix import ordering

* add documentation

* add unit tests

* fix linting error

* path is a date time formatter

* fmt

* remove unneeded

* update docs

* add UTC

* improve message

* change link

* create new Unpacker

* fmt

* description of the use case

* unit tests

(cherry picked from commit e0675778b8eed65c6fff6a1d1911833c21563755)

libbeat/outputs/fileout/docs/fileout.asciidoc, after:

[[file-output]]
=== Configure the File output

++++
<titleabbrev>File</titleabbrev>
++++

The File output dumps the transactions into a file where each transaction is in a JSON format.
Currently, this output is used for testing, but it can be used as input for
Logstash.

To use this output, edit the {beatname_uc} configuration file to disable the {es}
output by commenting it out, and enable the file output by adding `output.file`.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.file:
  path: "/tmp/{beatname_lc}"
  filename: {beatname_lc}
  #rotate_every_kb: 10000
  #number_of_files: 7
  #permissions: 0600
  #rotate_on_startup: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ifdef::apm-server[]
[float]
==== Configure the {kib} output

include::../../../../shared-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[tag=shared-kibana-config]
endif::[]

==== Configuration options

You can specify the following `output.file` options in the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

===== `enabled`

The enabled config is a boolean setting to enable or disable the output. If set
to false, the output is disabled.

The default value is `true`.

[[path]]
===== `path`

The path to the directory where the generated files will be saved. This option is
mandatory.

The path may include the timestamp when the file output is initialized using the `+FORMAT` syntax where `FORMAT` is a
valid https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/{doc-branch}/libbeat/common/dtfmt/doc.go[time format],
and enclosed with expansion braces: `%{+FORMAT}`. For example:

```
path: 'fileoutput-%{+yyyy.MM.dd}'
```

===== `filename`

The name of the generated files. The default is set to the Beat name. For example, the files
generated by default for {beatname_uc} would be "{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}.ndjson", "{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}-1.ndjson",
"{beatname_lc}-{{datetime}}-2.ndjson", and so on.

===== `rotate_every_kb`

The maximum size in kilobytes of each file. When this size is reached, the files are
rotated. The default value is 10240 KB.

===== `number_of_files`

The maximum number of files to save under <<path,`path`>>. When this number of files is reached, the
oldest file is deleted, and the rest of the files are shifted from last to first.
The number of files must be between 2 and 1024. The default is 7.

===== `permissions`

Permissions to use for file creation. The default is 0600.

===== `rotate_on_startup`

If the output file already exists on startup, immediately rotate it and start writing to a new file instead of appending to the existing one. Defaults to true.

===== `codec`

Output codec configuration. If the `codec` section is missing, events will be json encoded.

See <<configuration-output-codec>> for more information.
