libbeat/processors/syslog/docs/syslog.asciidoc, before:

[[syslog]]
=== Syslog

++++
<titleabbrev>syslog</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

[float]
==== Configuration

The `syslog` processor parses RFC 3146 and/or RFC 5424 formatted syslog messages
that are stored under the `field` key.

The supported configuration options are:

`field`:: (Required) Source field containing the syslog message. Defaults to `message`.

`format`:: (Optional) The syslog format to use, `rfc3164`, or `rfc5424`. To automatically
detect the format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is `auto`.

`timezone`:: (Optional) IANA time zone name(e.g. `America/New York`) or a
fixed time offset (e.g. +0200) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain
a time zone. `Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to `Local`.

`overwrite_keys`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether keys that already
exist in the event are overwritten by keys from the syslog message. The
default value is `true`.

`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) If `true` the processor will not return an error
when a specified field does not exist. Defaults to `false`.

`ignore_failure`:: (Optional) Ignore all errors produced by the processor.
Defaults to `false`.

`tag`:: (Optional) An identifier for this processor. Useful for debugging.

Example:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - syslog:
      field: message
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "message": "<165>1 2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z mymachine.example.com eventslog 1024 ID47 [exampleSDID@32473 iut=\"3\" eventSource=\"Application\" eventID=\"1011\"][examplePriority@32473 class=\"high\"] this is the message"
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Will produce the following output:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "@timestamp": "2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z",
  "event": {
    "original": "<165>1 2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z mymachine.example.com eventslog 1024 ID47 [exampleSDID@32473 iut=\"3\" eventSource=\"Application\" eventID=\"1011\"][examplePriority@32473 class=\"high\"] this is the message",
    "severity": 5
  },
  "log": {
    "syslog": {
      "priority": 165,
      "facility": {
        "code": 20,
        "name": "local4"
      },
      "severity": {
        "code": 5,
        "name": "Notice"
      },
      "hostname": "mymachine.example.com",
      "appname": "eventslog",
      "procid": "1024",
      "msgid": "ID47",
      "version": 1,
      "structured_data": {
        "exampleSDID@32473": {
          "iut":         "3",
          "eventSource": "Application",
          "eventID":     "1011"
        },
        "examplePriority@32473": {
          "class": "high"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "message": "this is the message"
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== Timestamps

The RFC 3164 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* Local timestamp (`Mmm dd hh:mm:ss`):
  ** `Jan 23 14:09:01`
* RFC-3339*:
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

The RFC 5424 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* RFC-3339:
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

Formats with an asterisk (*) are a non-standard allowance.

[float]
==== Metrics

Internal metrics are available to assist with debugging efforts. The metrics
are served from the metrics HTTP endpoint (for example: `http://localhost:5066/stats`)
and are found under `processor.syslog.[instance ID]` or `processor.syslog.[tag]-[instance ID]` if a *tag* is provided.

For example, here are metrics from a processor with a *tag* of `log-input` and an *instance ID* of `1`:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "processor": {
    "syslog": {
      "log-input-1": {
        "failure": 10,
        "missing": 0,
        "success": 3
      }
    }
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`failure`:: Measures the number of occurrences where a message was unable to be parsed.

`missing`:: Measures the number of occurrences where an event was missing the required input field.

`success`:: Measures the number of successfully parsed syslog messages.

Commit message:

Review comments and improvements
- Fix tabs in yaml in docs
- Add link to HTTP endpoint documentation
- Use errors.Is
- Don't set event.original if data was empty string
- Remove whitespace trim when setting message field

libbeat/processors/syslog/docs/syslog.asciidoc, after:

[[syslog]]
=== Syslog

++++
<titleabbrev>syslog</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

[float]
==== Configuration

The `syslog` processor parses RFC 3146 and/or RFC 5424 formatted syslog messages
that are stored under the `field` key.

The supported configuration options are:

`field`:: (Required) Source field containing the syslog message. Defaults to `message`.

`format`:: (Optional) The syslog format to use, `rfc3164`, or `rfc5424`. To automatically
detect the format from the log entries, set this option to `auto`. The default is `auto`.

`timezone`:: (Optional) IANA time zone name(e.g. `America/New York`) or a
fixed time offset (e.g. +0200) to use when parsing syslog timestamps that do not contain
a time zone. `Local` may be specified to use the machine's local time zone. Defaults to `Local`.

`overwrite_keys`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether keys that already
exist in the event are overwritten by keys from the syslog message. The
default value is `true`.

`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) If `true` the processor will not return an error
when a specified field does not exist. Defaults to `false`.

`ignore_failure`:: (Optional) Ignore all errors produced by the processor.
Defaults to `false`.

`tag`:: (Optional) An identifier for this processor. Useful for debugging.

Example:

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - syslog:
      field: message
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "message": "<165>1 2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z mymachine.example.com eventslog 1024 ID47 [exampleSDID@32473 iut=\"3\" eventSource=\"Application\" eventID=\"1011\"][examplePriority@32473 class=\"high\"] this is the message"
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Will produce the following output:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "@timestamp": "2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z",
  "event": {
    "original": "<165>1 2022-01-11T22:14:15.003Z mymachine.example.com eventslog 1024 ID47 [exampleSDID@32473 iut=\"3\" eventSource=\"Application\" eventID=\"1011\"][examplePriority@32473 class=\"high\"] this is the message",
    "severity": 5
  },
  "log": {
    "syslog": {
      "priority": 165,
      "facility": {
        "code": 20,
        "name": "local4"
      },
      "severity": {
        "code": 5,
        "name": "Notice"
      },
      "hostname": "mymachine.example.com",
      "appname": "eventslog",
      "procid": "1024",
      "msgid": "ID47",
      "version": 1,
      "structured_data": {
        "exampleSDID@32473": {
          "iut":         "3",
          "eventSource": "Application",
          "eventID":     "1011"
        },
        "examplePriority@32473": {
          "class": "high"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "message": "this is the message"
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== Timestamps

The RFC 3164 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* Local timestamp (`Mmm dd hh:mm:ss`):
  ** `Jan 23 14:09:01`
* RFC-3339*:
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

The RFC 5424 format accepts the following forms of timestamps:

* RFC-3339:
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456Z`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15-06:00`
  ** `2003-10-11T22:14:15.123456-06:00`

Formats with an asterisk (*) are a non-standard allowance.

[float]
==== Metrics

Internal metrics are available to assist with debugging efforts. The metrics
are served from the metrics HTTP endpoint (for example: `http://localhost:5066/stats`)
and are found under `processor.syslog.[instance ID]` or `processor.syslog.[tag]-[instance ID]`
if a *tag* is provided. See <<http-endpoint>> for more information on configuration the
metrics HTTP endpoint.

For example, here are metrics from a processor with a *tag* of `log-input` and an *instance ID* of `1`:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "processor": {
    "syslog": {
      "log-input-1": {
        "failure": 10,
        "missing": 0,
        "success": 3
      }
    }
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`failure`:: Measures the number of occurrences where a message was unable to be parsed.

`missing`:: Measures the number of occurrences where an event was missing the required input field.

`success`:: Measures the number of successfully parsed syslog messages.
