x-pack/metricbeat/module/oracle/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

This is the https://www.oracle.com[Oracle] module for Metricbeat. It is under active development with feedback from the community. A single Metricset for Tablespace monitoring is added so the community can start gathering metrics from their nodes and contributing to the module.

[float]
== Compatibility
Oracle Metricbeat module is being tested version 12c R2 by using the store/oracle/database-enterprise:12.2.0.1 Docker image downloaded directly from the https://hub.docker.com/_/oracle-database-enterprise-edition[Oracle Docker Hub repository]
which is based on 5.0.13-arch1-1-ARCH Arch Linux. This is important, the module has only been tested with the mentioned image in Linux environments.

OCI Instant Client is also required and the module has been tested by using version 18.5. See below for more information.

[float]
== Dashboard
An overview dashboard for Kibana is already included:

image::./images/metricbeat-oracle-overview.png[]

[float]

== Requirements
Oracle database requires a special OCI connector to get connected to the database. You can find more information about it in the https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client.html[official link of Oracle's webpage]. Oracle's webpage contains a comprehensive manual about installation methods and troubleshooting. A small description is included here but follow Oracle's official documentation if you find some issue. The OCI Instant Client is available with the Oracle Universal Installer, RPM file or ZIP file. Download links can be found https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client/downloads.html[here]. The Oracle Technology Network License Agreement with Oracle must be accepted to download the library.

The OCI library install few Client Shared Libraries that must be referenced on the machine where Metricbeat is installed. The environment variable `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` is used to set the reference required by the Metricbeat library. For example, let's say you have downloaded the library into your `Downloads` folder, you can follow the steps below to install the ZIP library on `/usr/lib` (assuming you have `wget` and a zip unpacker):

	unzip $HOME/Downloads/instantclient-basic-linux.x64-18.5.0.0.0dbru.zip -d /usr/lib
	export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/instantclient_18_5:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH`

Then, Metricbeat can be launched normally if the environment variable is set.

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricset is included in the module:

[float]
=== `tablespaces`

Includes information about data files and temp files, grouped by Tablespace with free space available, used space, status of the data files, status of the Tablespace, etc.

Commit message:

Improve connection documentation for Oracle Module

x-pack/metricbeat/module/oracle/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

This is the https://www.oracle.com[Oracle] module for Metricbeat. It is under active development with feedback from the community. A single Metricset for Tablespace monitoring is added so the community can start gathering metrics from their nodes and contributing to the module.

[float]
== Compatibility
Oracle Metricbeat module is being tested version 12c R2 by using the store/oracle/database-enterprise:12.2.0.1 Docker image downloaded directly from the https://hub.docker.com/_/oracle-database-enterprise-edition[Oracle Docker Hub repository]
which is based on 5.0.13-arch1-1-ARCH Arch Linux. This is important, the module has only been tested with the mentioned image in Linux environments.

[float]
== Dashboard
An overview dashboard for Kibana is already included:

image::./images/metricbeat-oracle-overview.png[]

[float]

== Requirements

*Oracle Database Connection Pre-requisites*

To get connected with the Oracle Database ORACLE_SID, ORACLE_BASE, ORACLE_HOME environment variables should be set.

For example: Let’s consider Oracle Database 21c installation using RPM manually by following https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/ladbi/running-rpm-packages-to-install-oracle-database.html[this] link, environment variables should be set as follows:
    `ORACLE_SID=ORCLCDB`
    `ORACLE_BASE=/opt/oracle/oradata`
    `ORACLE_HOME=/opt/oracle/product/21c/dbhome_1`
Also, add `ORACLE_HOME/bin` to the `PATH` environment variable.

*Oracle Instant Client*

Oracle Instant Client enables development and deployment of applications that connect to Oracle Database. The Instant Client libraries provide the necessary network connectivity and advanced data features to make full use of Oracle Database. If you have OCI Oracle server which comes with these libraries pre-installed, you don't need a separate client installation.

The OCI library install few Client Shared Libraries that must be referenced on the machine where Metricbeat is installed. Please follow https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/lacli/install-instant-client-using-zip.html#GUID-D3DCB4FB-D3CA-4C25-BE48-3A1FB5A22E84[this] link for OCI Instant Client set up. The OCI Instant Client is available with the Oracle Universal Installer, RPM file or ZIP file. Download links can be found https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client/downloads.html[here].

*Enable Listener*

The Oracle listener is a service that runs on the database host and receives requests from Oracle clients. Make sure that https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/network.102/b14213/lsnrctl.htm[listener] should be running. 
To check if the listener is running or not, run: 

`lsnrctl STATUS`

If the listener is not running, use the command to start:

`lsnrctl START`

Then, Metricbeat can be launched.

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricset is included in the module:

[float]
=== `tablespaces`

Includes information about data files and temp files, grouped by Tablespace with free space available, used space, status of the data files, status of the Tablespace, etc.
