filebeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[filebeat-module-aws]]
[role="xpack"]

:modulename: aws
:has-dashboards: true

== AWS module

beta[]

This is a module for aws logs. It uses filebeat s3 input to get log files from
AWS S3 buckets with SQS notification. This module supports reading s3 server
access logs with `s3access` fileset, ELB access logs with `elb` fileset, VPC
flow logs with `vpcflow` fileset, and CloudTrail logs with `cloudtrail` fileset.

Access logs contain detailed information about the requests made to these
services. VPC flow logs captures information about the IP traffic going to and
from network interfaces in AWS VPC. ELB access logs captures detailed information
about requests sent to the load balancer. CloudTrail logs contain events
that represent actions taken by a user, role or AWS service.

[float]
=== Module configuration

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  s3access:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  elb:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  vpcflow:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  cloudtrail:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws
----

*`var.queue_url`*::

AWS SQS queue url.

*`var.shared_credential_file`*::

Filename of AWS credential file.

*`var.credential_profile_name`*::

AWS credential profile name.

[float]
=== cloudtrail fileset

CloudTrail monitors events for the account. If user creates a trail, it
delivers those events as log files to a specific Amazon S3 bucket.
The `cloudtrail` fileset does not read the CloudTrail Digest files
that are delivered to the S3 bucket when Log File Integrity is turned
on, it only reads the CloudTrail logs.

[float]
=== elb fileset

Elastic Load Balancing provides access logs that capture detailed information
about requests sent to the load balancer. Each log contains information such
as the time the request was received, the client's IP address, latencies,
request paths, and server responses. Users can use these access logs to analyze
traffic patterns and to troubleshoot issues.

Please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/enable-access-logs.html[enable access logs for classic load balancer]
for sending Classic ELB access logs to S3 bucket.
For application load balancer, please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/load-balancer-access-logs.html#enable-access-logging[enable access log for application load balancer].
For network load balancer, please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest//network/load-balancer-access-logs.html[enable access log for network load balancer].

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-elb-overview.png[]

[float]
=== s3access fileset

Server access logging provides detailed records for the requests that are made
to a bucket. Server access logs are useful for many applications. For example,
access log information can be useful in security and access audits. It can also
help you learn about customer base and understand Amazon S3 bill.

Please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ServerLogs.html#server-access-logging-overview[how to enable server access logging]
for sending server access logs to S3 bucket.

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-s3access-overview.png[]

[float]
=== vpcflow fileset

VPC Flow Logs is a feature in AWS that enables users to capture information
about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in VPC. Flow log data
needs to be published to Amazon S3 in order for `vpcflow` fileset to retrieve.
Flow logs can help users to monitor traffic that is reaching each instance and
determine the direction of the traffic to and from the network interfaces.

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-vpcflow-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Fields

For a description of each field in the module, see the
<<exported-fields-aws,exported fields>> section.

Commit message:

Add endpoint to filebeat s3 input and aws module

filebeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[filebeat-module-aws]]
[role="xpack"]

:modulename: aws
:has-dashboards: true

== AWS module

beta[]

This is a module for aws logs. It uses filebeat s3 input to get log files from
AWS S3 buckets with SQS notification. This module supports reading s3 server
access logs with `s3access` fileset, ELB access logs with `elb` fileset, VPC
flow logs with `vpcflow` fileset, and CloudTrail logs with `cloudtrail` fileset.

Access logs contain detailed information about the requests made to these
services. VPC flow logs captures information about the IP traffic going to and
from network interfaces in AWS VPC. ELB access logs captures detailed information
about requests sent to the load balancer. CloudTrail logs contain events
that represent actions taken by a user, role or AWS service.

[float]
=== Module configuration

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  s3access:
    enabled: false
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue
    #var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials
    #var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws
    #var.visibility_timeout: 300s
    #var.api_timeout: 120s
    #var.endpoint: amazonaws.com

  elb:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  vpcflow:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws

  cloudtrail:
    enabled: false

    # AWS SQS queue url
    #var.queue_url: https://sqs.myregion.amazonaws.com/123456/myqueue

    # Filename of AWS credential file
    # If not set "$HOME/.aws/credentials" is used on Linux/Mac
    # "%UserProfile%\.aws\credentials" is used on Windows
    # var.shared_credential_file: /etc/filebeat/aws_credentials

    # Profile name for aws credential
    # If not set the default profile is used
    # var.credential_profile_name: fb-aws
----

*`var.queue_url`*::

AWS SQS queue url.

*`var.shared_credential_file`*::

Filename of AWS credential file.

*`var.credential_profile_name`*::

AWS credential profile name.

*`var.visibility_timeout`*::

The duration that the received messages are hidden from ReceiveMessage request.
Default to be 300 seconds.

*`var.api_timeout`*::

Maximum duration before AWS API request will be interrupted. Default to be 120 seconds.

*`var.endpoint`*::

Custom endpoint used to access AWS APIs.

[float]
=== cloudtrail fileset

CloudTrail monitors events for the account. If user creates a trail, it
delivers those events as log files to a specific Amazon S3 bucket.
The `cloudtrail` fileset does not read the CloudTrail Digest files
that are delivered to the S3 bucket when Log File Integrity is turned
on, it only reads the CloudTrail logs.

[float]
=== elb fileset

Elastic Load Balancing provides access logs that capture detailed information
about requests sent to the load balancer. Each log contains information such
as the time the request was received, the client's IP address, latencies,
request paths, and server responses. Users can use these access logs to analyze
traffic patterns and to troubleshoot issues.

Please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/enable-access-logs.html[enable access logs for classic load balancer]
for sending Classic ELB access logs to S3 bucket.
For application load balancer, please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/load-balancer-access-logs.html#enable-access-logging[enable access log for application load balancer].
For network load balancer, please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest//network/load-balancer-access-logs.html[enable access log for network load balancer].

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-elb-overview.png[]

[float]
=== s3access fileset

Server access logging provides detailed records for the requests that are made
to a bucket. Server access logs are useful for many applications. For example,
access log information can be useful in security and access audits. It can also
help you learn about customer base and understand Amazon S3 bill.

Please follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ServerLogs.html#server-access-logging-overview[how to enable server access logging]
for sending server access logs to S3 bucket.

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-s3access-overview.png[]

[float]
=== vpcflow fileset

VPC Flow Logs is a feature in AWS that enables users to capture information
about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in VPC. Flow log data
needs to be published to Amazon S3 in order for `vpcflow` fileset to retrieve.
Flow logs can help users to monitor traffic that is reaching each instance and
determine the direction of the traffic to and from the network interfaces.

This fileset comes with a predefined dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/filebeat-aws-vpcflow-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Fields

For a description of each field in the module, see the
<<exported-fields-aws,exported fields>> section.
