metricbeat/docs/running-on-kubernetes.asciidoc, before:

[[running-on-kubernetes]]
=== Running Metricbeat on Kubernetes

You can use {beatname_uc} <<running-on-docker,Docker images>> on Kubernetes to
retrieve cluster metrics.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]


[float]
==== Kubernetes deploy manifests

You deploy {beatname_uc} in two different ways at the same time:

* As a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSet]
to ensure that there's a running instance on each node of the cluster. These
instances are used to retrieve most metrics from the host, such as system
metrics, Docker stats, and metrics from all the services running on top of
Kubernetes.

* As a single {beatname_uc} instance created using a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/Deployment/[Deployment].
This instance is used to retrieve metrics that are unique for the whole
cluster, such as Kubernetes events or
https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics[kube-state-metrics].

Everything is deployed under the `kube-system` namespace by default. To change
the namespace, modify the manifest file.

To download the manifest file, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/metricbeat-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
*If you are using Kubernetes 1.7 or earlier:* {beatname_uc} uses a hostPath volume to persist internal data. It's located
under +/var/lib/{beatname_lc}-data+. The manifest uses folder autocreation (`DirectoryOrCreate`), which was introduced in
Kubernetes 1.8. You need to remove `type: DirectoryOrCreate` from the manifest and create the host folder yourself.
=======================================

[float]
==== Settings

By default, {beatname_uc} sends events to an existing Elasticsearch deployment,
if present. To specify a different destination, change the following parameters
in the manifest file:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_HOST
  value: elasticsearch
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PORT
  value: "9200"
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME
  value: elastic
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD
  value: changeme
------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Red Hat OpenShift configuration

If you are using Red Hat OpenShift, you need to specify additional settings in
the manifest file and enable the container to run as privileged.

. In the manifest file, edit the `metricbeat-daemonset-modules` ConfigMap, and
specify the following settings under `kubernetes.yml` in the `data` section:
+
[source,yaml]
-----
  kubernetes.yml: |-
    - module: kubernetes
      metricsets:
        - node
        - system
        - pod
        - container
        - volume
      period: 10s
      host: ${NODE_NAME}
      hosts: ["https://${HOSTNAME}:10250"]
      bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
      ssl.certificate_authorities:
        - /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/service-ca.crt
-----

. Under the `metricbeat` ClusterRole, add the following resources:
+
[source,yaml]
-----
  - nodes/metrics
  - nodes/stats
-----

. Grant the `metricbeat` service account access to the privileged SCC:
+
[source,shell]
-----
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged system:serviceaccount:kube-system:metricbeat
-----
+
This command enables the container to be privileged as an administrator for
OpenShift.

. Override the default node selector for the `kube-system` namespace (or your
custom namespace) to allow for scheduling on any node:
+
[source,shell]
----
oc patch namespace kube-system -p \
'{"metadata": {"annotations": {"openshift.io/node-selector": ""}}}'
----
+
This command sets the node selector for the project to an empty string. If you
don't run this command, the default node selector will skip master nodes.  

[float]
==== Deploy

Metricbeat gets some metrics from https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#usage[kube-state-metrics].
If `kube-state-metrics` is not already running, deploy it now (see the
https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[Kubernetes
deployment] docs).

To deploy {beatname_uc} to Kubernetes, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
kubectl create -f metricbeat-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

To check the status, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system  get ds/metricbeat

NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE-SELECTOR   AGE
metricbeat   32        32        0         32           0           <none>          1m

$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system  get deploy/metricbeat

NAME                    DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
metricbeat                1         1         1            1           1m
------------------------------------------------

Metrics should start flowing to Elasticsearch.

Commit message:

Document how to run beats on Kubernetes master nodes
Some kubernetes deployments limit the workloads that can run on master
nodes. This change documents how to override that behavior by adding
a toleration to DaemonSet specs.

metricbeat/docs/running-on-kubernetes.asciidoc, after:

[[running-on-kubernetes]]
=== Running Metricbeat on Kubernetes

You can use {beatname_uc} <<running-on-docker,Docker images>> on Kubernetes to
retrieve cluster metrics.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]


[float]
==== Kubernetes deploy manifests

You deploy {beatname_uc} in two different ways at the same time:

* As a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSet]
to ensure that there's a running instance on each node of the cluster. These
instances are used to retrieve most metrics from the host, such as system
metrics, Docker stats, and metrics from all the services running on top of
Kubernetes.

* As a single {beatname_uc} instance created using a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/Deployment/[Deployment].
This instance is used to retrieve metrics that are unique for the whole
cluster, such as Kubernetes events or
https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics[kube-state-metrics].

Everything is deployed under the `kube-system` namespace by default. To change
the namespace, modify the manifest file.

To download the manifest file, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/metricbeat-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
*If you are using Kubernetes 1.7 or earlier:* {beatname_uc} uses a hostPath volume to persist internal data. It's located
under +/var/lib/{beatname_lc}-data+. The manifest uses folder autocreation (`DirectoryOrCreate`), which was introduced in
Kubernetes 1.8. You need to remove `type: DirectoryOrCreate` from the manifest and create the host folder yourself.
=======================================

[float]
==== Settings

By default, {beatname_uc} sends events to an existing Elasticsearch deployment,
if present. To specify a different destination, change the following parameters
in the manifest file:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_HOST
  value: elasticsearch
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PORT
  value: "9200"
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME
  value: elastic
- name: ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD
  value: changeme
------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Running {beatname_uc} on master nodes

Kubernetes master nodes can use https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/[taints]
to limit the workloads that can run on them. To run {beatname_uc} on master nodes you may need to
update the Daemonset spec to include proper tolerations:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
spec:
 tolerations:
 - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
   effect: NoSchedule
------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Red Hat OpenShift configuration

If you are using Red Hat OpenShift, you need to specify additional settings in
the manifest file and enable the container to run as privileged.

. In the manifest file, edit the `metricbeat-daemonset-modules` ConfigMap, and
specify the following settings under `kubernetes.yml` in the `data` section:
+
[source,yaml]
-----
  kubernetes.yml: |-
    - module: kubernetes
      metricsets:
        - node
        - system
        - pod
        - container
        - volume
      period: 10s
      host: ${NODE_NAME}
      hosts: ["https://${HOSTNAME}:10250"]
      bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
      ssl.certificate_authorities:
        - /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/service-ca.crt
-----

. Under the `metricbeat` ClusterRole, add the following resources:
+
[source,yaml]
-----
  - nodes/metrics
  - nodes/stats
-----

. Grant the `metricbeat` service account access to the privileged SCC:
+
[source,shell]
-----
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged system:serviceaccount:kube-system:metricbeat
-----
+
This command enables the container to be privileged as an administrator for
OpenShift.

. Override the default node selector for the `kube-system` namespace (or your
custom namespace) to allow for scheduling on any node:
+
[source,shell]
----
oc patch namespace kube-system -p \
'{"metadata": {"annotations": {"openshift.io/node-selector": ""}}}'
----
+
This command sets the node selector for the project to an empty string. If you
don't run this command, the default node selector will skip master nodes.  

[float]
==== Deploy

Metricbeat gets some metrics from https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#usage[kube-state-metrics].
If `kube-state-metrics` is not already running, deploy it now (see the
https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[Kubernetes
deployment] docs).

To deploy {beatname_uc} to Kubernetes, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
kubectl create -f metricbeat-kubernetes.yaml
------------------------------------------------

To check the status, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system  get ds/metricbeat

NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE-SELECTOR   AGE
metricbeat   32        32        0         32           0           <none>          1m

$ kubectl --namespace=kube-system  get deploy/metricbeat

NAME                    DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
metricbeat                1         1         1            1           1m
------------------------------------------------

Metrics should start flowing to Elasticsearch.
