libbeat/processors/actions/docs/add_fields.asciidoc, before:

[[add-fields]]
=== Add fields

++++
<titleabbrev>add_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `add_fields` processor adds additional fields to the event.  Fields can be
scalar values, arrays, dictionaries, or any nested combination of these.  By
default the fields that you specify will be grouped under the `fields`
sub-dictionary in the event. To group the fields under a different
sub-dictionary, use the `target` setting. To store the fields as
top-level fields, set `target: ''`.

`target`:: (Optional) Sub-dictionary to put all fields into. Defaults to `fields`.
`fields`:: Fields to be added.


For example, this configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - add_fields:
      target: project
      fields:
        name: myproject
        id: '574734885120952459'
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds these fields to any event:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "project": {
    "name": "myproject",
    "id": "574734885120952459"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Added info about ability to overwrite (#29944) (#30117)
* Added info about ability to overwrite
Co-authored-by: Brandon Morelli <bmorelli25@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: DeDe Morton <dede.morton@elastic.co>

Co-authored-by: mr1716 <msr1716@rit.edu>

libbeat/processors/actions/docs/add_fields.asciidoc, after:

[[add-fields]]
=== Add fields

++++
<titleabbrev>add_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `add_fields` processor adds additional fields to the event.  Fields can be
scalar values, arrays, dictionaries, or any nested combination of these. 
The `add_fields` processor will overwrite the target field if it already exists. 
By default the fields that you specify will be grouped under the `fields`
sub-dictionary in the event. To group the fields under a different
sub-dictionary, use the `target` setting. To store the fields as
top-level fields, set `target: ''`.

`target`:: (Optional) Sub-dictionary to put all fields into. Defaults to `fields`.
`fields`:: Fields to be added.


For example, this configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - add_fields:
      target: project
      fields:
        name: myproject
        id: '574734885120952459'
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds these fields to any event:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "project": {
    "name": "myproject",
    "id": "574734885120952459"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
