libbeat/processors/actions/docs/copy_fields.asciidoc, before:

[[copy-fields]]
=== Copy fields

++++
<titleabbrev>copy_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `copy_fields` processor copies a field to another one.

`fields`:: List of `from` and `to` pairs to copy from and to.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to `true` and an error occurs, the changes are reverted and the original is returned. If set to `false`,
processing continues if an error occurs. Default is `true`.
`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Indicates whether to ignore events that lack the source
                   field. The default is `false`, which will fail processing of
                   an event if a field is missing.

For example, this configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - copy_fields:
      fields:
        - from: message
          to: event.original
      fail_on_error: false
      ignore_missing: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copies the original `message` field to `event.original`:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "message": "my-interesting-message",
  "event": {
      "original": "my-interesting-message"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Add metadata change support for processors
Some of the processors that are configured with a target field didn't
support special cases with the target field is a `@timestamp` or a
`@metadata` sub-field. This change is to make it consistent across
processors or to document why the processor does not need this change.

libbeat/processors/actions/docs/copy_fields.asciidoc, after:

[[copy-fields]]
=== Copy fields

++++
<titleabbrev>copy_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `copy_fields` processor copies a field to another one.

`fields`:: List of `from` and `to` pairs to copy from and to. It's supported to use `@metadata.` prefix for `from` and `to` and copy values not just in/from/to the event fields but also in/from/to the event metadata.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to `true` and an error occurs, the changes are reverted and the original is returned. If set to `false`,
processing continues if an error occurs. Default is `true`.
`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Indicates whether to ignore events that lack the source
                   field. The default is `false`, which will fail processing of
                   an event if a field is missing.

For example, this configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - copy_fields:
      fields:
        - from: message
          to: event.original
      fail_on_error: false
      ignore_missing: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copies the original `message` field to `event.original`:

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "message": "my-interesting-message",
  "event": {
      "original": "my-interesting-message"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
