libbeat/processors/actions/docs/decode_json_fields.asciidoc, before:

[[decode-json-fields]]
=== Decode JSON fields

The `decode_json_fields` processor decodes fields containing JSON strings and
replaces the strings with valid JSON objects.

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------------
processors:
 - decode_json_fields:
     fields: ["field1", "field2", ...]
     process_array: false
     max_depth: 1
     target: ""
     overwrite_keys: false
     add_error_key: true
-----------------------------------------------------

The `decode_json_fields` processor has the following configuration settings:

`fields`:: The fields containing JSON strings to decode.
`process_array`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether to process
arrays. The default is false.
`max_depth`:: (Optional) The maximum parsing depth. The default is 1.
`target`:: (Optional) The field under which the decoded JSON will be written. By
default the decoded JSON object replaces the string field from which it was
read. To merge the decoded JSON fields into the root of the event, specify
`target` with an empty string (`target: ""`). Note that the `null` value (`target:`)
is treated as if the field was not set at all.
`overwrite_keys`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether keys that already
exist in the event are overwritten by keys from the decoded JSON object. The
default value is false.
`add_error_key`:: (Optional) If it set to true, in case of error while decoding json keys
`error` field is going to be part of event with error message. If it set to false, there
will not be any error in event's field. Even error occurs while decoding json keys. The
default value is false
`document_id`:: (Optional) JSON key to use as the document id. If configured,
the field will be removed from the original json document and stored in
`@metadata._id`

Commit message:

Extend documentation of max_depth option of decode_json_fields processor (#15913) (#16505)
Try to clarify what parsing depth means.

(cherry picked from commit 033a3b3f179779dae1f1cd150fd6f36013d9c47f)

libbeat/processors/actions/docs/decode_json_fields.asciidoc, after:

[[decode-json-fields]]
=== Decode JSON fields

The `decode_json_fields` processor decodes fields containing JSON strings and
replaces the strings with valid JSON objects.

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------------
processors:
 - decode_json_fields:
     fields: ["field1", "field2", ...]
     process_array: false
     max_depth: 1
     target: ""
     overwrite_keys: false
     add_error_key: true
-----------------------------------------------------

The `decode_json_fields` processor has the following configuration settings:

`fields`:: The fields containing JSON strings to decode.
`process_array`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether to process
arrays. The default is false.
`max_depth`:: (Optional) The maximum parsing depth. A value of 1 will decode the
JSON objects in fields indicated in `fields`, a value of 2 will also decode the
objects embedded in the fields of these parsed documents. The default is 1.
`target`:: (Optional) The field under which the decoded JSON will be written. By
default the decoded JSON object replaces the string field from which it was
read. To merge the decoded JSON fields into the root of the event, specify
`target` with an empty string (`target: ""`). Note that the `null` value (`target:`)
is treated as if the field was not set at all.
`overwrite_keys`:: (Optional) A boolean that specifies whether keys that already
exist in the event are overwritten by keys from the decoded JSON object. The
default value is false.
`add_error_key`:: (Optional) If it set to true, in case of error while decoding json keys
`error` field is going to be part of event with error message. If it set to false, there
will not be any error in event's field. Even error occurs while decoding json keys. The
default value is false.
`document_id`:: (Optional) JSON key to use as the document id. If configured,
the field will be removed from the original json document and stored in
`@metadata._id`
