libbeat/processors/actions/docs/truncate_fields.asciidoc, before:

[[truncate-fields]]
=== Truncate fields

++++
<titleabbrev>truncate_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `truncate_fields` processor truncates a field to a given size. If the size of the field is smaller than
the limit, the field is left as is.

`fields`:: List of fields to truncate.
`max_bytes`:: Maximum number of bytes in a field. Mutually exclusive with `max_characters`.
`max_characters`:: Maximum number of characters in a field. Mutually exclusive with `max_bytes`.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to true, in case of an error the changes to
the event are reverted, and the original event is returned. If set to `false`,
processing continues also if an error happens. Default is `true`.
`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Whether to ignore events that lack the source
                   field. The default is `false`, which will fail processing of
                   an event if a field is missing.

For example, this configuration truncates the field named `message` to 5 characters:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - truncate_fields:
      fields:
        - message
      max_characters: 5
      fail_on_error: false
      ignore_missing: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Add metadata change support for processors
Some of the processors that are configured with a target field didn't
support special cases with the target field is a `@timestamp` or a
`@metadata` sub-field. This change is to make it consistent across
processors or to document why the processor does not need this change.

libbeat/processors/actions/docs/truncate_fields.asciidoc, after:

[[truncate-fields]]
=== Truncate fields

++++
<titleabbrev>truncate_fields</titleabbrev>
++++

The `truncate_fields` processor truncates a field to a given size. If the size of the field is smaller than
the limit, the field is left as is.

`fields`:: List of fields to truncate. It's supported to use `@metadata.` prefix for the fields and truncate values in the event metadata instead of event fields.
`max_bytes`:: Maximum number of bytes in a field. Mutually exclusive with `max_characters`.
`max_characters`:: Maximum number of characters in a field. Mutually exclusive with `max_bytes`.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to true, in case of an error the changes to
the event are reverted, and the original event is returned. If set to `false`,
processing continues also if an error happens. Default is `true`.
`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Whether to ignore events that lack the source
                   field. The default is `false`, which will fail processing of
                   an event if a field is missing.

For example, this configuration truncates the field named `message` to 5 characters:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - truncate_fields:
      fields:
        - message
      max_characters: 5
      fail_on_error: false
      ignore_missing: true
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
