heartbeat/docs/autodiscover-hints.asciidoc, before:

{beatname_uc} supports autodiscover based on hints from the provider. The hints system looks for
hints in Kubernetes Pod annotations or Docker labels that have the prefix `co.elastic.monitor`. As soon as
the container starts, {beatname_uc} will check if it contains any hints and launch the proper config for
it. Hints tell {beatname_uc} how to get logs for the given container. By default monitors will be created
for the container that exposes the port being requested to be monitored. You can use hints to modify this behavior. This is the full
list of supported hints:


[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/type`

Define the monitor type to use. Ex: http, tcp, icmp

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/hosts`

The URIs to monitor. Example:
[source,yaml]
-----
co.elastic.monitor/type: icmp
co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}
-----

This would ensure that each host has an ICMP monitor enabled on it.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/schedule`

Define the schedule on which the monitor should be executed.
-----
co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
-----

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/processors`

Define a processor to be added to the {beatname_uc} monitor configuration. See <<filtering-and-enhancing-data>> for the list
of supported processors.

In order to provide ordering of the processor definition, numbers can be provided. If not, the hints builder will do
arbitrary ordering:

[source,yaml]
-----
co.elastic.monitor/processors.1.drop_fields.fields: "field1, field2"
co.elastic.monitor/processors.drop_fields.fields: "field3"
-----

In the above sample the processor definition tagged with `1` would be executed first.

[float]
==== Kubernetes

Kubernetes autodiscover provider supports hints in Pod annotations. To enable it just set `hints.enabled`:

[source,yaml]
-----
heartbeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: kubernetes
      hints.enabled: true
-----

You can annotate Kubernetes Pods with useful info to spin up {beatname_uc} monitors:

[source,yaml]
-----
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: icmp
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
-----


[float]
===== Multiple containers

When a pod has multiple containers, the settings are shared unless you add the container name in the
hint. For example, these hints configure the container exposing port 8080 to do a HTTP check and have the `sidecar`
container to have an TCP check.


[source,yaml]
-----
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: http
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}:8080/healthz
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/type: tcp
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/hosts: ${data.host}:8081
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/schedule: "@every 5s"

-----

[float]
===== Multiple sets of hints
When a container needs multiple monitors to be defined on it, sets of annotations can be provided with numeric prefixes.
Annotations without numeric prefixes would default into a single monitor configuration.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: http
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}:8080/healthz
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
  co.elastic.monitor/1.type: tcp
  co.elastic.monitor/1.hosts: ${data.host}:8080
  co.elastic.monitor/1.schedule: "@every 5s"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[float]
==== Docker

Docker autodiscover provider supports hints in labels. To enable it just set `hints.enabled`:

[source,yaml]
-----
heartbeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      hints.enabled: true
-----

You can label Docker containers with useful info to spin up {beatname_uc} monitors similar to the Kubernetes example:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
LABEL co.elastic.monitor/1.type=tcp co.elastic.monitor/1.hosts='${data.host}:6379' co.elastic.monitor/1.schedule='@every 10s'
LABEL co.elastic.monitor/2.type=icmp co.elastic.monitor/2.hosts='${data.host}' co.elastic.monitor/2.schedule='@every 10s'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Add docs about hints and templates autodiscovery priority
Signed-off-by: chrismark <chrismarkou92@gmail.com>

heartbeat/docs/autodiscover-hints.asciidoc, after:

{beatname_uc} supports autodiscover based on hints from the provider. The hints system looks for
hints in Kubernetes Pod annotations or Docker labels that have the prefix `co.elastic.monitor`. As soon as
the container starts, {beatname_uc} will check if it contains any hints and launch the proper config for
it. Hints tell {beatname_uc} how to get logs for the given container. By default monitors will be created
for the container that exposes the port being requested to be monitored. You can use hints to modify this behavior. This is the full
list of supported hints:


[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/type`

Define the monitor type to use. Ex: http, tcp, icmp

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/hosts`

The URIs to monitor. Example:
[source,yaml]
-----
co.elastic.monitor/type: icmp
co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}
-----

This would ensure that each host has an ICMP monitor enabled on it.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/schedule`

Define the schedule on which the monitor should be executed.
-----
co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
-----

[float]
===== `co.elastic.monitor/processors`

Define a processor to be added to the {beatname_uc} monitor configuration. See <<filtering-and-enhancing-data>> for the list
of supported processors.

In order to provide ordering of the processor definition, numbers can be provided. If not, the hints builder will do
arbitrary ordering:

[source,yaml]
-----
co.elastic.monitor/processors.1.drop_fields.fields: "field1, field2"
co.elastic.monitor/processors.drop_fields.fields: "field3"
-----

In the above sample the processor definition tagged with `1` would be executed first.

When hints are used along with templates, then hints will be evaluated only in case
there is no template's condition that resolve to true. For example:

[source,yaml]
-----
heartbeat.autodiscover:
    - type: docker
      hints.enabled: true
      templates:
        - condition:
            contains:
              docker.container.image: redis
          config:
            - type: tcp
              hosts: ["${data.host}:${data.port}"]
              schedule: "@every 1s"
              timeout: 1s
-----

In this example first the condition `docker.container.image: redis` is evaluated
and if not matched the hints will be processed and if there is again no valid config
the `hints.default_config` will be used.

[float]
==== Kubernetes

Kubernetes autodiscover provider supports hints in Pod annotations. To enable it just set `hints.enabled`:

[source,yaml]
-----
heartbeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: kubernetes
      hints.enabled: true
-----

You can annotate Kubernetes Pods with useful info to spin up {beatname_uc} monitors:

[source,yaml]
-----
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: icmp
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
-----


[float]
===== Multiple containers

When a pod has multiple containers, the settings are shared unless you add the container name in the
hint. For example, these hints configure the container exposing port 8080 to do a HTTP check and have the `sidecar`
container to have an TCP check.


[source,yaml]
-----
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: http
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}:8080/healthz
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/type: tcp
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/hosts: ${data.host}:8081
  co.elastic.monitor.sidecar/schedule: "@every 5s"

-----

[float]
===== Multiple sets of hints
When a container needs multiple monitors to be defined on it, sets of annotations can be provided with numeric prefixes.
Annotations without numeric prefixes would default into a single monitor configuration.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
annotations:
  co.elastic.monitor/type: http
  co.elastic.monitor/hosts: ${data.host}:8080/healthz
  co.elastic.monitor/schedule: "@every 5s"
  co.elastic.monitor/1.type: tcp
  co.elastic.monitor/1.hosts: ${data.host}:8080
  co.elastic.monitor/1.schedule: "@every 5s"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[float]
==== Docker

Docker autodiscover provider supports hints in labels. To enable it just set `hints.enabled`:

[source,yaml]
-----
heartbeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      hints.enabled: true
-----

You can label Docker containers with useful info to spin up {beatname_uc} monitors similar to the Kubernetes example:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
LABEL co.elastic.monitor/1.type=tcp co.elastic.monitor/1.hosts='${data.host}:6379' co.elastic.monitor/1.schedule='@every 10s'
LABEL co.elastic.monitor/2.type=icmp co.elastic.monitor/2.hosts='${data.host}' co.elastic.monitor/2.schedule='@every 10s'
----------------------------------------------------------------------
