libbeat/outputs/redis/docs/redis.asciidoc, before:

//begin inner exclude for redis
ifndef::no-output-redis[]
[[redis-output]]
=== Configure the Redis output

++++
<titleabbrev>Redis</titleabbrev>
++++

The Redis output inserts the events into a Redis list or a Redis channel.
This output plugin is compatible with
the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-inputs-redis.html[Redis input plugin] for Logstash.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  password: "my_password"
  key: "{beatname_lc}"
  db: 0
  timeout: 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==== Compatibility

This output works with Redis 3.2.4.

==== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `redis` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

===== `enabled`

The enabled config is a boolean setting to enable or disable the output. If set
to false, the output is disabled.

The default value is true.

===== `hosts`

The list of Redis servers to connect to. If load balancing is enabled, the events are
distributed to the servers in the list. If one server becomes unreachable, the events are
distributed to the reachable servers only. You can define each Redis server by specifying
`HOST` or `HOST:PORT`. For example: `"192.15.3.2"` or `"test.redis.io:12345"`. If you
don't specify a port number, the value configured by `port` is used.

===== `index`

The index name added to the events metadata for use by Logstash. The default is "{beatname_lc}".

[[key-option-redis]]
===== `key`

The name of the Redis list or channel the events are published to. If not
configured, the value of the `index` setting is used.

You can set the key dynamically by using a format string to access any event
field. For example, this configuration uses a custom field, `fields.list`, to
set the Redis list key. If `fields.list` is missing, `fallback` is used:

["source","yaml"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  key: "%{[fields.list]:fallback}"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


TIP: To learn how to add custom fields to events, see the
<<libbeat-configuration-fields,`fields`>> option.

See the <<keys-option-redis,`keys`>> setting for other ways to set the key
dynamically.

[[keys-option-redis]]
===== `keys`

An array of key selector rules. Each rule specifies the `key` to use for events
that match the rule. During publishing, {beatname_uc} uses the first matching
rule in the array. Rules can contain conditionals, format string-based fields,
and name mappings. If the `keys` setting is missing or no rule matches, the
<<key-option-redis,`key`>> setting is used.

Rule settings:

*`index`*:: The key format string to use. If this string contains field
references, such as `%{[fields.name]}`, the fields must exist, or the rule
fails.

*`mappings`*:: A dictionary that takes the value returned by `key` and maps it to
a new name.

*`default`*:: The default string value to use if `mappings` does not find a match.

*`when`*:: A condition that must succeed in order to execute the current rule.
ifndef::no-processors[]
All the <<conditions,conditions>> supported by processors are also supported
here.
endif::no-processors[]

Example `keys` settings:

["source","yaml"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  key: "default_list"
  keys:
    - key: "info_list"   # send to info_list if `message` field contains INFO
      when.contains:
        message: "INFO"
    - key: "debug_list"  # send to debug_list if `message` field contains DEBUG
      when.contains:
        message: "DEBUG"
    - key: "%{[fields.list]}"
      mappings:
        http: "frontend_list"
        nginx: "frontend_list"
        mysql: "backend_list"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

===== `password`

The password to authenticate with. The default is no authentication.

===== `db`

The Redis database number where the events are published. The default is 0.

===== `datatype`

The Redis data type to use for publishing events.If the data type is `list`, the
Redis RPUSH command is used and all events are added to the list with the key defined under `key`.
If the data type `channel` is used, the Redis `PUBLISH` command is used and means that all events
are pushed to the pub/sub mechanism of Redis. The name of the channel is the one defined under `key`.
The default value is `list`.

===== `codec`

Output codec configuration. If the `codec` section is missing, events will be json encoded.

See <<configuration-output-codec>> for more information.

===== `host_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The Redis host to connect to when using topology map support. Topology map support is disabled if this option is not set.

===== `password_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The password to use for authenticating with the Redis topology server. The default is no authentication.

===== `db_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The Redis database number where the topology information is stored. The default is 1.

===== `worker`

The number of workers to use for each host configured to publish events to Redis. Use this setting along with the
`loadbalance` option. For example, if you have 2 hosts and 3 workers, in total 6 workers are started (3 for each host).

===== `loadbalance`

If set to true and multiple hosts or workers are configured, the output plugin load balances published events onto all
Redis hosts. If set to false, the output plugin sends all events to only one host (determined at random) and will switch
to another host if the currently selected one becomes unreachable. The default value is true.

===== `timeout`

The Redis connection timeout in seconds. The default is 5 seconds.

===== `backoff.init`

The number of seconds to wait before trying to reconnect to Redis after
a network error. After waiting `backoff.init` seconds, {beatname_uc} tries to
reconnect. If the attempt fails, the backoff timer is increased exponentially up
to `backoff.max`. After a successful connection, the backoff timer is reset. The
default is 1s.

===== `backoff.max`

The maximum number of seconds to wait before attempting to connect to
Redis after a network error. The default is 60s.

===== `max_retries`

ifdef::ignores_max_retries[]
{beatname_uc} ignores the `max_retries` setting and retries indefinitely.
endif::[]

ifndef::ignores_max_retries[]
The number of times to retry publishing an event after a publishing failure.
After the specified number of retries, the events are typically dropped.

Set `max_retries` to a value less than 0 to retry until all events are published.

The default is 3.
endif::[]


===== `bulk_max_size`

The maximum number of events to bulk in a single Redis request or pipeline. The default is 2048.

If the Beat sends single events, the events are collected into batches. If the
Beat publishes a large batch of events (larger than the value specified by
`bulk_max_size`), the batch is split.

Specifying a larger batch size can improve performance by lowering the overhead
of sending events. However big batch sizes can also increase processing times,
which might result in API errors, killed connections, timed-out publishing
requests, and, ultimately, lower throughput.

Setting `bulk_max_size` to values less than or equal to 0 disables the
splitting of batches. When splitting is disabled, the queue decides on the
number of events to be contained in a batch.

===== `ssl`

Configuration options for SSL parameters like the root CA for Redis connections
guarded by SSL proxies (for example https://www.stunnel.org[stunnel]). See
<<configuration-ssl>> for more information.

===== `proxy_url`

The URL of the SOCKS5 proxy to use when connecting to the Redis servers. The
value must be a URL with a scheme of `socks5://`. You cannot use a web proxy
because the protocol used to communicate with Redis is not based on HTTP.

If the SOCKS5 proxy server requires client authentication, you can embed
a username and password in the URL.

When using a proxy, hostnames are resolved on the proxy server instead of on the
client. You can change this behavior by setting the
<<redis-proxy-use-local-resolver,`proxy_use_local_resolver`>> option.

[[redis-proxy-use-local-resolver]]
===== `proxy_use_local_resolver`

This option determines whether Redis hostnames are resolved locally when using a proxy.
The default value is false, which means that name resolution occurs on the proxy server.

//end inner exclude for redis
endif::[]

Commit message:

Update redis host settings docs (#16518)
* Update redis host settings docs

The redis host setting accepts passwords and URL schemas by now.
This change update the reference config files and docs.

(cherry picked from commit c4671ebdd0261d3de549b5328f4173c00e1ee8e7)

libbeat/outputs/redis/docs/redis.asciidoc, after:

//begin inner exclude for redis
ifndef::no-output-redis[]
[[redis-output]]
=== Configure the Redis output

++++
<titleabbrev>Redis</titleabbrev>
++++

The Redis output inserts the events into a Redis list or a Redis channel.
This output plugin is compatible with
the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-inputs-redis.html[Redis input plugin] for Logstash.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  password: "my_password"
  key: "{beatname_lc}"
  db: 0
  timeout: 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==== Compatibility

This output works with Redis 3.2.4.

==== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `redis` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

===== `enabled`

The enabled config is a boolean setting to enable or disable the output. If set
to false, the output is disabled.

The default value is true.

===== `hosts`

The list of Redis servers to connect to. If load balancing is enabled, the events are
distributed to the servers in the list. If one server becomes unreachable, the events are
distributed to the reachable servers only. You can define each Redis server by specifying
`HOST` or `HOST:PORT`. For example: `"192.15.3.2"` or `"test.redis.io:12345"`. If you
don't specify a port number, the value configured by `port` is used.
Configure each Redis server with an `IP:PORT` pair or with a `URL`. For
example: `redis://localhost:6379` or `rediss://localhost:6379`.
URLs can include a server-specific password. For example: `redis://:password@localhost:6379`.
The `redis` scheme will disable the `ssl` settings for the host, while `rediss`
will enforce TLS.  If `rediss` is specified and no `ssl` settings are
configured, the output uses the system certificate store.

===== `index`

The index name added to the events metadata for use by Logstash. The default is "{beatname_lc}".

[[key-option-redis]]
===== `key`

The name of the Redis list or channel the events are published to. If not
configured, the value of the `index` setting is used.

You can set the key dynamically by using a format string to access any event
field. For example, this configuration uses a custom field, `fields.list`, to
set the Redis list key. If `fields.list` is missing, `fallback` is used:

["source","yaml"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  key: "%{[fields.list]:fallback}"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


TIP: To learn how to add custom fields to events, see the
<<libbeat-configuration-fields,`fields`>> option.

See the <<keys-option-redis,`keys`>> setting for other ways to set the key
dynamically.

[[keys-option-redis]]
===== `keys`

An array of key selector rules. Each rule specifies the `key` to use for events
that match the rule. During publishing, {beatname_uc} uses the first matching
rule in the array. Rules can contain conditionals, format string-based fields,
and name mappings. If the `keys` setting is missing or no rule matches, the
<<key-option-redis,`key`>> setting is used.

Rule settings:

*`index`*:: The key format string to use. If this string contains field
references, such as `%{[fields.name]}`, the fields must exist, or the rule
fails.

*`mappings`*:: A dictionary that takes the value returned by `key` and maps it to
a new name.

*`default`*:: The default string value to use if `mappings` does not find a match.

*`when`*:: A condition that must succeed in order to execute the current rule.
ifndef::no-processors[]
All the <<conditions,conditions>> supported by processors are also supported
here.
endif::no-processors[]

Example `keys` settings:

["source","yaml"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
output.redis:
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  key: "default_list"
  keys:
    - key: "info_list"   # send to info_list if `message` field contains INFO
      when.contains:
        message: "INFO"
    - key: "debug_list"  # send to debug_list if `message` field contains DEBUG
      when.contains:
        message: "DEBUG"
    - key: "%{[fields.list]}"
      mappings:
        http: "frontend_list"
        nginx: "frontend_list"
        mysql: "backend_list"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

===== `password`

The password to authenticate with. The default is no authentication.

===== `db`

The Redis database number where the events are published. The default is 0.

===== `datatype`

The Redis data type to use for publishing events.If the data type is `list`, the
Redis RPUSH command is used and all events are added to the list with the key defined under `key`.
If the data type `channel` is used, the Redis `PUBLISH` command is used and means that all events
are pushed to the pub/sub mechanism of Redis. The name of the channel is the one defined under `key`.
The default value is `list`.

===== `codec`

Output codec configuration. If the `codec` section is missing, events will be json encoded.

See <<configuration-output-codec>> for more information.

===== `host_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The Redis host to connect to when using topology map support. Topology map support is disabled if this option is not set.

===== `password_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The password to use for authenticating with the Redis topology server. The default is no authentication.

===== `db_topology`

deprecated:[5.0.0]

The Redis database number where the topology information is stored. The default is 1.

===== `worker`

The number of workers to use for each host configured to publish events to Redis. Use this setting along with the
`loadbalance` option. For example, if you have 2 hosts and 3 workers, in total 6 workers are started (3 for each host).

===== `loadbalance`

If set to true and multiple hosts or workers are configured, the output plugin load balances published events onto all
Redis hosts. If set to false, the output plugin sends all events to only one host (determined at random) and will switch
to another host if the currently selected one becomes unreachable. The default value is true.

===== `timeout`

The Redis connection timeout in seconds. The default is 5 seconds.

===== `backoff.init`

The number of seconds to wait before trying to reconnect to Redis after
a network error. After waiting `backoff.init` seconds, {beatname_uc} tries to
reconnect. If the attempt fails, the backoff timer is increased exponentially up
to `backoff.max`. After a successful connection, the backoff timer is reset. The
default is 1s.

===== `backoff.max`

The maximum number of seconds to wait before attempting to connect to
Redis after a network error. The default is 60s.

===== `max_retries`

ifdef::ignores_max_retries[]
{beatname_uc} ignores the `max_retries` setting and retries indefinitely.
endif::[]

ifndef::ignores_max_retries[]
The number of times to retry publishing an event after a publishing failure.
After the specified number of retries, the events are typically dropped.

Set `max_retries` to a value less than 0 to retry until all events are published.

The default is 3.
endif::[]


===== `bulk_max_size`

The maximum number of events to bulk in a single Redis request or pipeline. The default is 2048.

If the Beat sends single events, the events are collected into batches. If the
Beat publishes a large batch of events (larger than the value specified by
`bulk_max_size`), the batch is split.

Specifying a larger batch size can improve performance by lowering the overhead
of sending events. However big batch sizes can also increase processing times,
which might result in API errors, killed connections, timed-out publishing
requests, and, ultimately, lower throughput.

Setting `bulk_max_size` to values less than or equal to 0 disables the
splitting of batches. When splitting is disabled, the queue decides on the
number of events to be contained in a batch.

===== `ssl`

Configuration options for SSL parameters like the root CA for Redis connections
guarded by SSL proxies (for example https://www.stunnel.org[stunnel]). See
<<configuration-ssl>> for more information.

===== `proxy_url`

The URL of the SOCKS5 proxy to use when connecting to the Redis servers. The
value must be a URL with a scheme of `socks5://`. You cannot use a web proxy
because the protocol used to communicate with Redis is not based on HTTP.

If the SOCKS5 proxy server requires client authentication, you can embed
a username and password in the URL.

When using a proxy, hostnames are resolved on the proxy server instead of on the
client. You can change this behavior by setting the
<<redis-proxy-use-local-resolver,`proxy_use_local_resolver`>> option.

[[redis-proxy-use-local-resolver]]
===== `proxy_use_local_resolver`

This option determines whether Redis hostnames are resolved locally when using a proxy.
The default value is false, which means that name resolution occurs on the proxy server.

//end inner exclude for redis
endif::[]
