x-pack/metricbeat/module/aws/rds/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

The rds metricset of aws module allows you to monitor your AWS RDS service. `rds` metricset fetches a set of metrics from
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/MonitoringOverview.html[Amazon RDS] and
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/Aurora.Monitoring.html[Amazon Aurora DB].
with Amazon RDS, users can monitor network throughput, I/O for read, write, and/or
metadata operations, client connections, and burst credit balances for their DB instances.
Amazon RDS sends metrics and dimensions to Amazon CloudWatch every minute.
Amazon Aurora provides a variety of Amazon CloudWatch metrics that users can
use to monitor health and performance of their Aurora DB cluster.

[float]
=== AWS Permissions
Some specific AWS permissions are required for IAM user to collect AWS RDS metrics.
----
cloudwatch:GetMetricData
ec2:DescribeRegions
rds:DescribeDBInstances
sts:GetCallerIdentity
iam:ListAccountAliases
----

[float]
=== Dashboard

The aws rds metricset comes with a predefined dashboard.

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-rds-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Configuration example
[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  period: 60s
  metricsets:
    - rds
  access_key_id: '<access_key_id>'
  secret_access_key: '<secret_access_key>'
  session_token: '<session_token>'
----

Commit message:

[Metricbeat] add collecting tags for rds metricset (#16605) (#16939)
* add ListTagsForResourceRequest for rds metricset

(cherry picked from commit df3eb93ee007415c72e9ed3270eaa92a74781401)

x-pack/metricbeat/module/aws/rds/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

The rds metricset of aws module allows you to monitor your AWS RDS service. `rds` metricset fetches a set of metrics from
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/MonitoringOverview.html[Amazon RDS] and
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/Aurora.Monitoring.html[Amazon Aurora DB].
with Amazon RDS, users can monitor network throughput, I/O for read, write, and/or
metadata operations, client connections, and burst credit balances for their DB instances.
Amazon RDS sends metrics and dimensions to Amazon CloudWatch every minute.
Amazon Aurora provides a variety of Amazon CloudWatch metrics that users can
use to monitor health and performance of their Aurora DB cluster. This metricset
by default collects all tags from AWS RDS.

[float]
=== AWS Permissions
Some specific AWS permissions are required for IAM user to collect AWS RDS metrics.
----
cloudwatch:GetMetricData
ec2:DescribeRegions
rds:DescribeDBInstances
rds:ListTagsForResource
sts:GetCallerIdentity
iam:ListAccountAliases
----

[float]
=== Dashboard

The aws rds metricset comes with a predefined dashboard.

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-rds-overview.png[]

[float]
=== Configuration example
[source,yaml]
----
- module: aws
  period: 60s
  metricsets:
    - rds
  access_key_id: '<access_key_id>'
  secret_access_key: '<secret_access_key>'
  session_token: '<session_token>'
----
