libbeat/processors/add_cloud_metadata/docs/add_cloud_metadata.asciidoc, before:

[[add-cloud-metadata]]
=== Add cloud metadata

++++
<titleabbrev>add_cloud_metadata</titleabbrev>
++++

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor enriches each event with instance metadata
from the machine's hosting provider. At startup it will query a list of hosting
providers and cache the instance metadata.

The following cloud providers are supported:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Digital Ocean
- Google Compute Engine (GCE)
- https://www.qcloud.com/?lang=en[Tencent Cloud] (QCloud)
- Alibaba Cloud (ECS)
- Huawei Cloud (ECS)
- Azure Virtual Machine
- Openstack Nova
- Hetzner Cloud

NOTE: `huawei` is an alias for `openstack`. Huawei cloud runs on OpenStack platform, and when
viewed from a metadata API standpoint, it is impossible to differentiate it from OpenStack. If you know that your
deployments run on Huawei Cloud exclusively, and you wish to have `cloud.provider` value as `huawei`, you can achieve
this by overwriting the value using an `add_fields` processor.

The Alibaba Cloud and Tencent cloud providers are disabled by default, because
they require to access a remote host. The `providers` setting allows users to
select a list of default providers to query.

The simple configuration below enables the processor.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - add_cloud_metadata: ~
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor has three optional configuration settings.
The first one is `timeout` which specifies the maximum amount of time to wait
for a successful response when detecting the hosting provider. The default
timeout value is `3s`.

If a timeout occurs then no instance metadata will be added to the events. This
makes it possible to enable this processor for all your deployments (in the
cloud or on-premise).

The second optional setting is `providers`. The `providers` settings accepts a
list of cloud provider names to be used. If `providers` is not configured, then
all providers that do not access a remote endpoint are enabled by default.

List of names the `providers` setting supports:

- "alibaba", or "ecs" for the Alibaba Cloud provider (disabled by default).
- "azure" for Azure Virtual Machine (enabled by default).
   If the virtual machine is part of an AKS managed cluster, the fields
   `orchestrator.cluster.name` and `orchestrator.cluster.id` can also be
   retrieved. "TENANT_ID", "CLIENT_ID" and "CLIENT_SECRET" environment
   variables need to be set for authentication purposes. If not set we
   fallback to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#2-authenticate-with-azure[DefaultAzureCredential] and user can choose different authentication methods (e.g. workload identity).
- "digitalocean" for Digital Ocean (enabled by default).
- "aws", or "ec2" for Amazon Web Services (enabled by default).
- "gcp" for Google Copmute Enging (enabled by default).
- "openstack", "nova", or "huawei" for Openstack Nova (enabled by default).
- "openstack-ssl", or "nova-ssl" for Openstack Nova when SSL metadata APIs are enabled (enabled by default).
- "tencent", or "qcloud" for Tencent Cloud (disabled by default).
- "hetzner" for Hetzner Cloud (enabled by default).

The third optional configuration setting is `overwrite`. When `overwrite` is
`true`, `add_cloud_metadata` overwrites existing `cloud.*` fields (`false` by
default).

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor supports SSL options to configure the http
client used to query cloud metadata. See <<configuration-ssl>> for more information.

The metadata that is added to events varies by hosting provider. Below are
examples for each of the supported providers.

_AWS_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "account.id": "123456789012",
    "availability_zone": "us-east-1c",
    "instance.id": "i-4e123456",
    "machine.type": "t2.medium",
    "image.id": "ami-abcd1234",
    "provider": "aws",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Digital Ocean_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "instance.id": "1234567",
    "provider": "digitalocean",
    "region": "nyc2"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_GCP_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "us-east1-b",
    "instance.id": "1234556778987654321",
    "machine.type": "f1-micro",
    "project.id": "my-dev",
    "provider": "gcp"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Tencent Cloud_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "gz-azone2",
    "instance.id": "ins-qcloudv5",
    "provider": "qcloud",
    "region": "china-south-gz"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Alibaba Cloud_

This metadata is only available when VPC is selected as the network type of the
ECS instance.

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "cn-shenzhen",
    "instance.id": "i-wz9g2hqiikg0aliyun2b",
    "provider": "ecs",
    "region": "cn-shenzhen-a"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Azure Virtual Machine_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "provider": "azure",
    "instance.id": "04ab04c3-63de-4709-a9f9-9ab8c0411d5e",
    "instance.name": "test-az-vm",
    "machine.type": "Standard_D3_v2",
    "region": "eastus2"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Openstack Nova_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "instance.name": "test-998d932195.mycloud.tld",
    "instance.id": "i-00011a84",
    "availability_zone": "xxxx-az-c",
    "provider": "openstack",
    "machine.type": "m2.large"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Hetzner Cloud_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "hel1-dc2",
    "instance.name": "my-hetzner-instance",
    "instance.id": "111111",
    "provider": "hetzner",
    "region": "eu-central"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

add_cloud_metadata: env var override for providers (#38669)
* add_cloud_metadata: env var override for providers

Add support for configuring the add_cloud_metadata providers
with an environment variable, $BEATS_ADD_CLOUD_METADATA_PROVIDERS.

This may be useful when deploying Elastic Agent standalone in a
cloud provider managed Kubernetes cluster, where the cloud provider
is known at deployment time.

* Fix changelog

* appease golangci-lint

* More appeasement

libbeat/processors/add_cloud_metadata/docs/add_cloud_metadata.asciidoc, after:

[[add-cloud-metadata]]
=== Add cloud metadata

++++
<titleabbrev>add_cloud_metadata</titleabbrev>
++++

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor enriches each event with instance metadata
from the machine's hosting provider. At startup it will query a list of hosting
providers and cache the instance metadata.

The following cloud providers are supported:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Digital Ocean
- Google Compute Engine (GCE)
- https://www.qcloud.com/?lang=en[Tencent Cloud] (QCloud)
- Alibaba Cloud (ECS)
- Huawei Cloud (ECS)
- Azure Virtual Machine
- Openstack Nova
- Hetzner Cloud

NOTE: `huawei` is an alias for `openstack`. Huawei cloud runs on OpenStack platform, and when
viewed from a metadata API standpoint, it is impossible to differentiate it from OpenStack. If you know that your
deployments run on Huawei Cloud exclusively, and you wish to have `cloud.provider` value as `huawei`, you can achieve
this by overwriting the value using an `add_fields` processor.

The Alibaba Cloud and Tencent cloud providers are disabled by default, because
they require to access a remote host. The `providers` setting allows users to
select a list of default providers to query.

The simple configuration below enables the processor.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
processors:
  - add_cloud_metadata: ~
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor has three optional configuration settings.
The first one is `timeout` which specifies the maximum amount of time to wait
for a successful response when detecting the hosting provider. The default
timeout value is `3s`.

If a timeout occurs then no instance metadata will be added to the events. This
makes it possible to enable this processor for all your deployments (in the
cloud or on-premise).

The second optional setting is `providers`. The `providers` settings accepts a
list of cloud provider names to be used. If `providers` is not configured, then
all providers that do not access a remote endpoint are enabled by default.
The list of providers may alternatively be configured with the environment
variable `BEATS_ADD_CLOUD_METADATA_PROVIDERS`, by setting it to a comma-separated
list of provider names.

List of names the `providers` setting supports:

- "alibaba", or "ecs" for the Alibaba Cloud provider (disabled by default).
- "azure" for Azure Virtual Machine (enabled by default).
   If the virtual machine is part of an AKS managed cluster, the fields
   `orchestrator.cluster.name` and `orchestrator.cluster.id` can also be
   retrieved. "TENANT_ID", "CLIENT_ID" and "CLIENT_SECRET" environment
   variables need to be set for authentication purposes. If not set we
   fallback to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#2-authenticate-with-azure[DefaultAzureCredential] and user can choose different authentication methods (e.g. workload identity).
- "digitalocean" for Digital Ocean (enabled by default).
- "aws", or "ec2" for Amazon Web Services (enabled by default).
- "gcp" for Google Copmute Enging (enabled by default).
- "openstack", "nova", or "huawei" for Openstack Nova (enabled by default).
- "openstack-ssl", or "nova-ssl" for Openstack Nova when SSL metadata APIs are enabled (enabled by default).
- "tencent", or "qcloud" for Tencent Cloud (disabled by default).
- "hetzner" for Hetzner Cloud (enabled by default).

The third optional configuration setting is `overwrite`. When `overwrite` is
`true`, `add_cloud_metadata` overwrites existing `cloud.*` fields (`false` by
default).

The `add_cloud_metadata` processor supports SSL options to configure the http
client used to query cloud metadata. See <<configuration-ssl>> for more information.

The metadata that is added to events varies by hosting provider. Below are
examples for each of the supported providers.

_AWS_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "account.id": "123456789012",
    "availability_zone": "us-east-1c",
    "instance.id": "i-4e123456",
    "machine.type": "t2.medium",
    "image.id": "ami-abcd1234",
    "provider": "aws",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Digital Ocean_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "instance.id": "1234567",
    "provider": "digitalocean",
    "region": "nyc2"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_GCP_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "us-east1-b",
    "instance.id": "1234556778987654321",
    "machine.type": "f1-micro",
    "project.id": "my-dev",
    "provider": "gcp"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Tencent Cloud_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "gz-azone2",
    "instance.id": "ins-qcloudv5",
    "provider": "qcloud",
    "region": "china-south-gz"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Alibaba Cloud_

This metadata is only available when VPC is selected as the network type of the
ECS instance.

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "cn-shenzhen",
    "instance.id": "i-wz9g2hqiikg0aliyun2b",
    "provider": "ecs",
    "region": "cn-shenzhen-a"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Azure Virtual Machine_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "provider": "azure",
    "instance.id": "04ab04c3-63de-4709-a9f9-9ab8c0411d5e",
    "instance.name": "test-az-vm",
    "machine.type": "Standard_D3_v2",
    "region": "eastus2"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Openstack Nova_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "instance.name": "test-998d932195.mycloud.tld",
    "instance.id": "i-00011a84",
    "availability_zone": "xxxx-az-c",
    "provider": "openstack",
    "machine.type": "m2.large"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Hetzner Cloud_

[source,json]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{
  "cloud": {
    "availability_zone": "hel1-dc2",
    "instance.name": "my-hetzner-instance",
    "instance.id": "111111",
    "provider": "hetzner",
    "region": "eu-central"
  }
}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
