x-pack/filebeat/module/cisco/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: cisco
:has-dashboards: true

== Cisco module

beta[]

This is a module for Cisco network device's logs. It includes the following
filesets for receiving logs over syslog or read from a file:

- `asa` fileset: supports Cisco ASA firewall logs.
- `ftd` fileset: supports Cisco Firepower Threat Defense logs.
- `ios` fileset: supports Cisco IOS router and switch logs.

Cisco ASA devices also support exporting flow records using NetFlow, which is
supported by the {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-netflow.html[netflow module] in
{beatname_uc}.

include::../include/what-happens.asciidoc[]

include::../include/running-modules.asciidoc[]

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with a sample dashboard for ASA:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/kibana-cisco-asa.png[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

The module is by default configured to run via syslog on port 9001 for ASA and
port 9002 for IOS. However it can also be configured to read from a file path.
See the following example.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-----
- module: cisco
  asa:
    enabled: true
    var.paths: ["/var/log/cisco-asa.log"]
    var.input: "file"
-----

:fileset_ex: asa

include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `asa` fileset settings

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  asa:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9001
    var.log_level: 5
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.log_level`*::

An integer between 1 and 7 that allows to filter messages based on the
severity level. The different severity levels supported by the Cisco ASA are:

[width="30%",cols="^1,2",options="header"]
|===========================
| log_level | severity
|     1     | Alert
|     2     | Critical
|     3     | Error
|     4     | Warning
|     5     | Notification
|     6     | Informational
|     7     | Debugging
|===========================

A value of 7 (default) will not filter any messages. A lower value will drop
any messages with a severity level higher than the specified value. For
example, `var.log_level: 3` will allow messages of level 1 (Alert), 2 (Critical)
and 3 (Error). All other messages will be dropped.

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9001.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

[float]
==== `ftd` fileset settings

The Cisco FTD fileset primarily supports parsing IPv4 and IPv6 access list log
messages similar to that of ASA devices as well as Security Event Syslog
Messages for Intrusion, Connection, File and Malware events.

*Field mappings*

The `ftd` fileset maps Security Event Syslog Messages to the Elastic Common
Schema (ECS) format. The following table illustrates the mapping from
Security Event fields to ECS. The `cisco.ftd` prefix is used when there is no
corresponding ECS field available.

Mappings for Intrusion events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| EgressInterface | cisco.ftd.destination_interface
| GID | service.id
| HTTPResponse | http.response.status_code
| IngressInterface | cisco.ftd.source_interface
| InlineResult | event.outcome
| IntrusionPolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| Message | message
| Protocol | network.transport
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| User | user.id, user.name
| WebApplication | network.application
|====================================

Mappings for Connection and Security Intelligence events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ACPolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| AccessControlRuleAction | event.outcome
| AccessControlRuleName | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| ConnectionDuration | event.duration
| DNSQuery | dns.question.name
| DNSRecordType | dns.question.type
| DNSResponseType | dns.response_code
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| EgressInterface | cisco.ftd.destination_interface
| HTTPReferer | http.request.referrer
| HTTPResponse | http.response.status_code
| IngressInterface | cisco.ftd.source_interface
| InitiatorBytes | source.bytes
| InitiatorPackets | source.packets
| NetBIOSDomain | host.hostname
| Protocol | network.transport
| ReferencedHost | url.domain
| ResponderBytes | destination.bytes
| ResponderPackets | destination.packets
| SSLActualAction | event.outcome
| SSLServerName | server.domain
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| URL | url.original
| User | user.name
| UserAgent | user_agent.original
| WebApplication | network.application
| originalClientSrcIP | client.address
|====================================

Mappings for File and Malware events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| ArchiveFileName | file.name
| ArchiveSHA256 | file.hash.sha256
| Client | network.application
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| FileName | file.name
| FilePolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| FileSHA256 | file.hash.sha256
| FileSize | file.size
| FirstPacketSecond | event.start
| Protocol | network.transport
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| URI | url.original
| User | user.name
| WebApplication | network.application
|====================================

*Example configuration:*

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  ftd:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9003
    var.log_level: 5
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.log_level`*::

An integer between 1 and 7 that allows to filter messages based on the
severity level. The different severity levels supported by the Cisco ASA are:

[width="30%",cols="^1,2",options="header"]
|===========================
| log_level | severity
|     1     | Alert
|     2     | Critical
|     3     | Error
|     4     | Warning
|     5     | Notification
|     6     | Informational
|     7     | Debugging
|===========================

A value of 7 (default) will not filter any messages. A lower value will drop
any messages with a severity level higher than the specified value. For
example, `var.log_level: 3` will allow messages of level 1 (Alert), 2 (Critical)
and 3 (Error). All other messages will be dropped.

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9003.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

[float]
==== `ios` fileset settings

The Cisco IOS fileset primarily supports parsing IPv4 and IPv6 access list log
messages.

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  ios:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9002
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9002.

include::../include/timezone-support.asciidoc[]

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

:modulename!:

Commit message:

Cisco: Add warning about script compilations to docs (#14789) (#15623)
The cisco/asa and cisco/ftd filesets can cause problems with the default script compilation settings in Elasticsearch. This PR adds a warning about it to the docs and some workarounds.

(cherry picked from commit 629b2eb60dd00fb2ecdece78182ec60a4ec31e1b)

x-pack/filebeat/module/cisco/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]

:modulename: cisco
:has-dashboards: true

== Cisco module

beta[]

This is a module for Cisco network device's logs. It includes the following
filesets for receiving logs over syslog or read from a file:

- `asa` fileset: supports Cisco ASA firewall logs.
- `ftd` fileset: supports Cisco Firepower Threat Defense logs.
- `ios` fileset: supports Cisco IOS router and switch logs.

Cisco ASA devices also support exporting flow records using NetFlow, which is
supported by the {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-netflow.html[netflow module] in
{beatname_uc}.

[WARNING]
=======================================
Some filesets in this module make extensive use of ingest pipeline scripts.
This can cause their ingest pipelines to fail loading due to exceeding the
default compilation limits:

`[script] Too many dynamic script compilations within, max: [75/5m]`

Check the <<dynamic-script-compilations>> section for more information.
=======================================

include::../include/what-happens.asciidoc[]

include::../include/running-modules.asciidoc[]

[float]
=== Example dashboard

This module comes with a sample dashboard for ASA:

[role="screenshot"]
image::./images/kibana-cisco-asa.png[]

include::../include/configuring-intro.asciidoc[]

The module is by default configured to run via syslog on port 9001 for ASA and
port 9002 for IOS. However it can also be configured to read from a file path.
See the following example.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-----
- module: cisco
  asa:
    enabled: true
    var.paths: ["/var/log/cisco-asa.log"]
    var.input: "file"
-----

:fileset_ex: asa

include::../include/config-option-intro.asciidoc[]

[float]
==== `asa` fileset settings

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  asa:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9001
    var.log_level: 5
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.log_level`*::

An integer between 1 and 7 that allows to filter messages based on the
severity level. The different severity levels supported by the Cisco ASA are:

[width="30%",cols="^1,2",options="header"]
|===========================
| log_level | severity
|     1     | Alert
|     2     | Critical
|     3     | Error
|     4     | Warning
|     5     | Notification
|     6     | Informational
|     7     | Debugging
|===========================

A value of 7 (default) will not filter any messages. A lower value will drop
any messages with a severity level higher than the specified value. For
example, `var.log_level: 3` will allow messages of level 1 (Alert), 2 (Critical)
and 3 (Error). All other messages will be dropped.

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9001.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

[float]
==== `ftd` fileset settings

The Cisco FTD fileset primarily supports parsing IPv4 and IPv6 access list log
messages similar to that of ASA devices as well as Security Event Syslog
Messages for Intrusion, Connection, File and Malware events.

*Field mappings*

The `ftd` fileset maps Security Event Syslog Messages to the Elastic Common
Schema (ECS) format. The following table illustrates the mapping from
Security Event fields to ECS. The `cisco.ftd` prefix is used when there is no
corresponding ECS field available.

Mappings for Intrusion events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| EgressInterface | cisco.ftd.destination_interface
| GID | service.id
| HTTPResponse | http.response.status_code
| IngressInterface | cisco.ftd.source_interface
| InlineResult | event.outcome
| IntrusionPolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| Message | message
| Protocol | network.transport
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| User | user.id, user.name
| WebApplication | network.application
|====================================

Mappings for Connection and Security Intelligence events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ACPolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| AccessControlRuleAction | event.outcome
| AccessControlRuleName | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| ConnectionDuration | event.duration
| DNSQuery | dns.question.name
| DNSRecordType | dns.question.type
| DNSResponseType | dns.response_code
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| EgressInterface | cisco.ftd.destination_interface
| HTTPReferer | http.request.referrer
| HTTPResponse | http.response.status_code
| IngressInterface | cisco.ftd.source_interface
| InitiatorBytes | source.bytes
| InitiatorPackets | source.packets
| NetBIOSDomain | host.hostname
| Protocol | network.transport
| ReferencedHost | url.domain
| ResponderBytes | destination.bytes
| ResponderPackets | destination.packets
| SSLActualAction | event.outcome
| SSLServerName | server.domain
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| URL | url.original
| User | user.name
| UserAgent | user_agent.original
| WebApplication | network.application
| originalClientSrcIP | client.address
|====================================

Mappings for File and Malware events fields:
[options="header"]
|====================================
| FTD Field | Mapped fields
| ApplicationProtocol | network.protocol
| ArchiveFileName | file.name
| ArchiveSHA256 | file.hash.sha256
| Client | network.application
| DstIP | destination.address
| DstPort | destination.port
| FileName | file.name
| FilePolicy | cisco.ftd.rule_name
| FileSHA256 | file.hash.sha256
| FileSize | file.size
| FirstPacketSecond | event.start
| Protocol | network.transport
| SrcIP | source.address
| SrcPort | source.port
| URI | url.original
| User | user.name
| WebApplication | network.application
|====================================

*Example configuration:*

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  ftd:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9003
    var.log_level: 5
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.log_level`*::

An integer between 1 and 7 that allows to filter messages based on the
severity level. The different severity levels supported by the Cisco ASA are:

[width="30%",cols="^1,2",options="header"]
|===========================
| log_level | severity
|     1     | Alert
|     2     | Critical
|     3     | Error
|     4     | Warning
|     5     | Notification
|     6     | Informational
|     7     | Debugging
|===========================

A value of 7 (default) will not filter any messages. A lower value will drop
any messages with a severity level higher than the specified value. For
example, `var.log_level: 3` will allow messages of level 1 (Alert), 2 (Critical)
and 3 (Error). All other messages will be dropped.

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9003.

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

[float]
==== `ios` fileset settings

The Cisco IOS fileset primarily supports parsing IPv4 and IPv6 access list log
messages.

Example config:

[source,yaml]
----
- module: cisco
  ios:
    var.syslog_host: 0.0.0.0
    var.syslog_port: 9002
----

include::../include/var-paths.asciidoc[]

*`var.syslog_host`*::

The interface to listen to UDP based syslog traffic. Defaults to localhost.
Set to 0.0.0.0 to bind to all available interfaces.

*`var.syslog_port`*::

The UDP port to listen for syslog traffic. Defaults to 9002.

include::../include/timezone-support.asciidoc[]

:has-dashboards!:

:fileset_ex!:

[float]
[[dynamic-script-compilations]]
=== Dynamic Script Compilations

The `asa` and `ftd` filesets are based on ingest pipelines and make extensive
use of script processors and painless conditions. This can cause the pipelines
to fail loading the first time the module is used, due to exceeding the maximum
script compilation limits. It is recommended to tune the following parameters
on your cluster:

- {ref}/circuit-breaker.html#script-compilation-circuit-breaker[script.max_compilations_rate]:
  Increase to at least `100/5m`.

- {ref}/modules-scripting-using.html#modules-scripting-using-caching[script.cache_max_size]:
  Increase to at least `200` if using both filesets or other script-heavy modules.

:modulename!:
