libbeat/docs/security/basic-auth.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[beats-basic-auth]]
=== Configure authentication credentials

When sending data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch`
output, {beatname_uc} must either provide basic authentication credentials
or present a client certificate.

*Before you begin:* <<feature-roles>>.

You specify authentication credentials in the {beatname_uc} configuration
file: 

* To use basic authentication, specify the `username` and `password` settings
under `output.elasticsearch`. For example: 
+
--
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" <2>
----
<1> Let's assume this user has the privileges required to publish events to
{es}.
<2> The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
--
ifndef::apm-server[]
+
If you've configured the {kib} endpoint, also specify credentials for
authenticating with {kib}. For example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
setup.kibana:
  host: "mykibanahost:5601"
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_setup" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" 
----
<1> Let's assume this user has the privileges required to set up dashboards.
endif::apm-server[]

* To use Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) certificates to authenticate users,
configure the `certificate` and `key` settings. These settings assume that the
distinguished name (DN) in the certificate is mapped to the appropriate roles in
the `role_mapping.yml` file on each node in the {es} cluster. For more
information, see {ref}/mapping-roles.html#mapping-roles-file[Using role
mapping files].
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
--------------------------------------------------

To learn more about {stack} security features and other types of
authentication, see {ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster].

Commit message:

[DOCS] Recommend env variables rather than keystore for functionbeat

libbeat/docs/security/basic-auth.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[beats-basic-auth]]
=== Configure authentication credentials

When sending data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch`
output, {beatname_uc} must either provide basic authentication credentials
or present a client certificate.

*Before you begin:* <<feature-roles>>.

You specify authentication credentials in the {beatname_uc} configuration
file: 

* To use basic authentication, specify the `username` and `password` settings
under `output.elasticsearch`. For example: 
+
--
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" <2>
----
<1> Let's assume this user has the privileges required to publish events to
{es}.
<2> The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values
ifndef::serverless[]
in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.
endif::[]
ifdef::serverless[]
in environment variables.
endif::[]
--
ifndef::apm-server[]
+
If you've configured the {kib} endpoint, also specify credentials for
authenticating with {kib}. For example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
setup.kibana:
  host: "mykibanahost:5601"
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_setup" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" 
----
<1> Let's assume this user has the privileges required to set up dashboards.
endif::apm-server[]

* To use Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) certificates to authenticate users,
configure the `certificate` and `key` settings. These settings assume that the
distinguished name (DN) in the certificate is mapped to the appropriate roles in
the `role_mapping.yml` file on each node in the {es} cluster. For more
information, see {ref}/mapping-roles.html#mapping-roles-file[Using role
mapping files].
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
--------------------------------------------------

To learn more about {stack} security features and other types of
authentication, see {ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster].
