libbeat/docs/security/users.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[feature-roles]]
== Grant users access to secured resources

You can use role-based access control to grant users access to secured
resources. The roles that you set up depend on your organization's security
requirements and the minimum privileges required to use specific features.

Typically you need the create the following separate roles:

* <<privileges-to-setup-beats,setup role>> for setting up index templates and
other dependencies
* <<privileges-to-publish-monitoring,monitoring role>> for sending monitoring
information
* <<privileges-to-publish-events,writer role>>  for publishing events collected
by {beatname_uc}
* <<kibana-user-privileges,reader role>> for {kib} users who need to view and
create visualizations that access {beatname_uc} data


{es-security-features} provides {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in roles] that grant a
subset of the privileges needed by {beatname_uc} users. When possible, use the
built-in roles to minimize the affect of future changes on your security
strategy.

Instead of using usernames and passwords, roles and privileges can be assigned to
API keys to grant access to Elasticsearch resources. See <<beats-api-keys>> for
more information.

[[privileges-to-setup-beats]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for setup

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _setup_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

IMPORTANT: Setting up {beatname_uc} is an admin-level task that requires extra
privileges. As a best practice, grant the setup role to administrators only, and
use a more restrictive role for event publishing.

Administrators who set up {beatname_uc} typically need to load mappings,
dashboards, and other objects used to index data into {es} and visualize it in
{kib}.

To grant users the required privileges:

. Create a *setup role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_setup+, that has
the following privileges:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)

ifndef::no_ilm[]
|Cluster
|`manage_ilm`
|Set up and manage index lifecycle management (ILM) policy
endif::no_ilm[]

|Index
|`manage` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Load data stream

|====
+
Omit any privileges that aren't relevant in your environment.
+
NOTE: These instructions assume that you are using the default name for
{beatname_uc} indices. If +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ is not listed, or you are using a custom name, enter it manually and modify the privileges to
match your index naming pattern.

. Assign the *setup role*, along with the following built-in roles, to users who
need to set up {beatname_uc}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_admin`
|Load dependencies, such as example dashboards, if available, into {kib}

|`ingest_admin`
|Set up index templates and, if available, ingest pipelines

ifdef::apm-server[]
|`ingest_admin`
|Set up ingest pipelines
endif::apm-server[]

|====
+
Omit any roles that aren't relevant in your environment.

[[privileges-to-publish-monitoring]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for monitoring

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _monitoring_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

{es-security-features} provides built-in users and roles for monitoring. The privileges and
roles needed depend on the method used to collect monitoring data.

[IMPORTANT]
.Important note for {ecloud} users
====
Built-in users are not available when running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {ess}]
on {ecloud}. To send monitoring data securely, create a monitoring user and
grant it the roles described in the following sections.
====

* If you're using <<monitoring-internal-collection,internal collection>> to
collect metrics about {beatname_uc}, {es-security-features} provides
the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user] and
+{beat_monitoring_user}+ {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role] to send
monitoring information. You can use the built-in user, if it's available in your
environment, or create a user who has the privileges needed to send monitoring
information.
+
If you use the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user, make sure you set the password.
+
If you don't use the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user:
+
--
. Create a *monitoring role*, called something like
+{beat_default_index_prefix}_monitoring+, that has the following privileges:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)

|Index
|`create_index` on `.monitoring-beats-*` indices
|Create monitoring indices in {es}

|Index
|`create_doc` on `.monitoring-beats-*` indices
|Write monitoring events into {es}
|====

. Assign the *monitoring role*, along with the following built-in roles, to
users who need to monitor {beatname_uc}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_admin`
|Use {kib}

|`monitoring_user`
|Use *Stack Monitoring* in {kib} to monitor {beatname_uc}
|====
--

ifndef::serverless[]

* If you're <<monitoring-metricbeat-collection,using {metricbeat}>> to collect
metrics about {beatname_uc}, {es-security-features} provides the `remote_monitoring_user`
{ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user], and the `remote_monitoring_collector`
and `remote_monitoring_agent` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in roles] for
collecting and sending monitoring information. You can use the built-in user, if
it's available in your environment, or create a user who has the privileges
needed to collect and send monitoring information.
+
If you use the `remote_monitoring_user` user, make sure you set the password.
+
If you don't use the `remote_monitoring_user` user:
+
--
. Create a user on the production cluster who will collect and send monitoring
information.

. Assign the following roles to the user:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`remote_monitoring_collector`
|Collect monitoring metrics from {beatname_uc}

|`remote_monitoring_agent`
|Send monitoring data to the monitoring cluster
|====

. Assign the following role to users who will view the monitoring data in
{kib}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`monitoring_user`
|Use *Stack Monitoring* in {kib} to monitor {beatname_uc}
|====
--
endif::serverless[]

[[privileges-to-publish-events]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for publishing

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _publishing_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

Users who publish events to {es} need to create and write to {beatname_uc}
indices. To minimize the privileges required by the writer role, use the
<<privileges-to-setup-beats,setup role>> to pre-load dependencies. This section
assumes that you've run the setup.

ifndef::no_ilm[]
When using ILM, turn off the ILM setup check in the {beatname_uc} config file before
running {beatname_uc} to publish events:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.ilm.check_exists: false
----
endif::no_ilm[]

To grant the required privileges:

. Create a *writer role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer+,
that has the following privileges:
+
NOTE: The `monitor` cluster privilege and the `create_doc` privilege on
+{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices are required in every configuration.
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

ifndef::apm-server[]
|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)
endif::apm-server[]

ifndef::no_ilm[]
|Cluster
|`read_ilm`
| Read the ILM policy when connecting to clusters that support ILM.
Not needed when `setup.ilm.check_exists` is `false`.
endif::no_ilm[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
|Cluster
|`read_pipeline`
|Check for ingest pipelines used by modules. Needed when using modules.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
|Cluster
|`read_pipeline`
|Check for ingest pipelines used by winlogbeat.
endif::[]

|Index
|`create_doc` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Write events into {es}
|====
ifndef::apm-server[]
+
Omit any privileges that aren't relevant in your environment.
endif::apm-server[]

. Assign the *writer role* to users who will index events into {es}.

[[kibana-user-privileges]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed to read {beatname_uc} data from {kib}

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _reader_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

{kib} users typically need to view dashboards and visualizations that contain
{beatname_uc} data. These users might also need to create and edit dashboards
and visualizations.

To grant users the required privileges:

ifndef::apm-server[]
. Create a *reader role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader+, that has
the following privilege:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Index
|`read` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Read data indexed by {beatname_uc}

| Spaces
| `Read` or `All` on Dashboards, Visualize, and Discover
| Allow the user to view, edit, and create dashboards, as well as browse data.

ifdef::beat_kib_app[]
| Spaces
| `Read` or `All` on {beat_kib_app}
| Allow the use of {beat_kib_app}
endif::[]
|====

. Assign the *reader role*, along with the following built-in roles, to
users who need to read {beatname_uc} data:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

| `monitoring_user`
| Allow users to monitor the health of {beatname_uc} itself. Only assign this role to users who manage {beatname_uc}.

|====
endif::apm-server[]

ifdef::apm-server[]
. Assign the following built-in roles to users who need to read {beatname_uc}
data:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_user` and `apm_user`
|Use the APM UI

|`admin`
|Read and update APM Agent configuration via {kib}
|====
endif::apm-server[]

// to do: THIS SHOULD GO IN ITS OWN FILE
[[learn-more-security]]
=== Learn more about privileges, roles, and users

Want to learn more about creating users and roles? See
{ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster]. Also see:

* {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges] for a description of
available privileges
* {ref}/built-in-roles.html[Built-in roles] for a description of roles that
you can assign to users

Commit message:

[Docs] add auto_configure index privilege to the required permissions for beat agents

libbeat/docs/security/users.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[feature-roles]]
== Grant users access to secured resources

You can use role-based access control to grant users access to secured
resources. The roles that you set up depend on your organization's security
requirements and the minimum privileges required to use specific features.

Typically you need the create the following separate roles:

* <<privileges-to-setup-beats,setup role>> for setting up index templates and
other dependencies
* <<privileges-to-publish-monitoring,monitoring role>> for sending monitoring
information
* <<privileges-to-publish-events,writer role>>  for publishing events collected
by {beatname_uc}
* <<kibana-user-privileges,reader role>> for {kib} users who need to view and
create visualizations that access {beatname_uc} data


{es-security-features} provides {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in roles] that grant a
subset of the privileges needed by {beatname_uc} users. When possible, use the
built-in roles to minimize the affect of future changes on your security
strategy.

Instead of using usernames and passwords, roles and privileges can be assigned to
API keys to grant access to Elasticsearch resources. See <<beats-api-keys>> for
more information.

[[privileges-to-setup-beats]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for setup

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _setup_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

IMPORTANT: Setting up {beatname_uc} is an admin-level task that requires extra
privileges. As a best practice, grant the setup role to administrators only, and
use a more restrictive role for event publishing.

Administrators who set up {beatname_uc} typically need to load mappings,
dashboards, and other objects used to index data into {es} and visualize it in
{kib}.

To grant users the required privileges:

. Create a *setup role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_setup+, that has
the following privileges:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)

ifndef::no_ilm[]
|Cluster
|`manage_ilm`
|Set up and manage index lifecycle management (ILM) policy
endif::no_ilm[]

|Index
|`manage` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Load data stream

|====
+
Omit any privileges that aren't relevant in your environment.
+
NOTE: These instructions assume that you are using the default name for
{beatname_uc} indices. If +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ is not listed, or you are using a custom name, enter it manually and modify the privileges to
match your index naming pattern.

. Assign the *setup role*, along with the following built-in roles, to users who
need to set up {beatname_uc}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_admin`
|Load dependencies, such as example dashboards, if available, into {kib}

|`ingest_admin`
|Set up index templates and, if available, ingest pipelines

ifdef::apm-server[]
|`ingest_admin`
|Set up ingest pipelines
endif::apm-server[]

|====
+
Omit any roles that aren't relevant in your environment.

[[privileges-to-publish-monitoring]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for monitoring

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _monitoring_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

{es-security-features} provides built-in users and roles for monitoring. The privileges and
roles needed depend on the method used to collect monitoring data.

[IMPORTANT]
.Important note for {ecloud} users
====
Built-in users are not available when running our
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service[hosted {ess}]
on {ecloud}. To send monitoring data securely, create a monitoring user and
grant it the roles described in the following sections.
====

* If you're using <<monitoring-internal-collection,internal collection>> to
collect metrics about {beatname_uc}, {es-security-features} provides
the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ {ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user] and
+{beat_monitoring_user}+ {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in role] to send
monitoring information. You can use the built-in user, if it's available in your
environment, or create a user who has the privileges needed to send monitoring
information.
+
If you use the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user, make sure you set the password.
+
If you don't use the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user:
+
--
. Create a *monitoring role*, called something like
+{beat_default_index_prefix}_monitoring+, that has the following privileges:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)

|Index
|`create_index` on `.monitoring-beats-*` indices
|Create monitoring indices in {es}

|Index
|`create_doc` on `.monitoring-beats-*` indices
|Write monitoring events into {es}
|====

. Assign the *monitoring role*, along with the following built-in roles, to
users who need to monitor {beatname_uc}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_admin`
|Use {kib}

|`monitoring_user`
|Use *Stack Monitoring* in {kib} to monitor {beatname_uc}
|====
--

ifndef::serverless[]

* If you're <<monitoring-metricbeat-collection,using {metricbeat}>> to collect
metrics about {beatname_uc}, {es-security-features} provides the `remote_monitoring_user`
{ref}/built-in-users.html[built-in user], and the `remote_monitoring_collector`
and `remote_monitoring_agent` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in roles] for
collecting and sending monitoring information. You can use the built-in user, if
it's available in your environment, or create a user who has the privileges
needed to collect and send monitoring information.
+
If you use the `remote_monitoring_user` user, make sure you set the password.
+
If you don't use the `remote_monitoring_user` user:
+
--
. Create a user on the production cluster who will collect and send monitoring
information.

. Assign the following roles to the user:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`remote_monitoring_collector`
|Collect monitoring metrics from {beatname_uc}

|`remote_monitoring_agent`
|Send monitoring data to the monitoring cluster
|====

. Assign the following role to users who will view the monitoring data in
{kib}:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`monitoring_user`
|Use *Stack Monitoring* in {kib} to monitor {beatname_uc}
|====
--
endif::serverless[]

[[privileges-to-publish-events]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed for publishing

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _publishing_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

Users who publish events to {es} need to create and write to {beatname_uc}
indices. To minimize the privileges required by the writer role, use the
<<privileges-to-setup-beats,setup role>> to pre-load dependencies. This section
assumes that you've run the setup.

ifndef::no_ilm[]
When using ILM, turn off the ILM setup check in the {beatname_uc} config file before
running {beatname_uc} to publish events:

[source,yaml]
----
setup.ilm.check_exists: false
----
endif::no_ilm[]

To grant the required privileges:

. Create a *writer role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer+,
that has the following privileges:
+
NOTE: The `monitor` cluster privilege and the `create_doc` and `auto_configure`
privileges on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices are required in every
configuration.
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

ifndef::apm-server[]
|Cluster
|`monitor`
|Retrieve cluster details (e.g. version)
endif::apm-server[]

ifndef::no_ilm[]
|Cluster
|`read_ilm`
| Read the ILM policy when connecting to clusters that support ILM.
Not needed when `setup.ilm.check_exists` is `false`.
endif::no_ilm[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
|Cluster
|`read_pipeline`
|Check for ingest pipelines used by modules. Needed when using modules.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
|Cluster
|`read_pipeline`
|Check for ingest pipelines used by {beatname_uc}.
endif::[]

|Index
|`create_doc` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Write events into {es}

|Index
|`auto_configure` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Update the datastream mapping. Consider either disabling entirely or adding the
rule `-{beat_default_index_prefix}-*` to the cluster settings
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/docs-index_.html#index-creation,action.auto_create_index[action.auto_create_index]
to prevent unwanted indices creations from the agents.
|====

ifndef::apm-server[]
+
Omit any privileges that aren't relevant in your environment.
endif::apm-server[]

. Assign the *writer role* to users who will index events into {es}.

[[kibana-user-privileges]]
=== Grant privileges and roles needed to read {beatname_uc} data from {kib}

++++
<titleabbrev>Create a _reader_ user</titleabbrev>
++++

{kib} users typically need to view dashboards and visualizations that contain
{beatname_uc} data. These users might also need to create and edit dashboards
and visualizations.

To grant users the required privileges:

ifndef::apm-server[]
. Create a *reader role*, called something like +{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader+, that has
the following privilege:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Type | Privilege | Purpose

|Index
|`read` on +{beat_default_index_prefix}-*+ indices
|Read data indexed by {beatname_uc}

| Spaces
| `Read` or `All` on Dashboards, Visualize, and Discover
| Allow the user to view, edit, and create dashboards, as well as browse data.

ifdef::beat_kib_app[]
| Spaces
| `Read` or `All` on {beat_kib_app}
| Allow the use of {beat_kib_app}
endif::[]
|====

. Assign the *reader role*, along with the following built-in roles, to
users who need to read {beatname_uc} data:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

| `monitoring_user`
| Allow users to monitor the health of {beatname_uc} itself. Only assign this role to users who manage {beatname_uc}.

|====
endif::apm-server[]

ifdef::apm-server[]
. Assign the following built-in roles to users who need to read {beatname_uc}
data:
+
[options="header"]
|====
|Role | Purpose

|`kibana_user` and `apm_user`
|Use the APM UI

|`admin`
|Read and update APM Agent configuration via {kib}
|====
endif::apm-server[]

// to do: THIS SHOULD GO IN ITS OWN FILE
[[learn-more-security]]
=== Learn more about privileges, roles, and users

Want to learn more about creating users and roles? See
{ref}/secure-cluster.html[Secure a cluster]. Also see:

* {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges] for a description of
available privileges
* {ref}/built-in-roles.html[Built-in roles] for a description of roles that
you can assign to users
